A gunman is on the run and posting live videos to Facebook after police say he killed two people and injured four others, including two police officers, in Oklahoma. Authorities identified the suspect as 38-year-old Michael Dale Vance Jr. of Chandler, Oklahoma. He is believed to be carrying an AK-47 and driving a silver 2007 Mitsubishi Eclipse sedan. Vance is accused of two counts of first-degree murder, possession of a firearm after a former felony conviction and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle. Emergency officials in Lincoln County, east of Oklahoma City, say Vance shot and wounded two officers from the town of Wellston about 7 p.m. local time Sunday after they had responded to a disturbance call.  During the initial questioning of Vance and another man, Tony Heavner, the officers were struck by gunfire, according to court records. One officer was shot in the foot and the second was shot in the leg, County Sheriff Charles Dougherty said.  The wounded officers returned fire, striking Vance at least twice, Dougherty said.  Heavner was arrested, but Vance fled the scene in a patrol car. Vance then posted a video on Facebook Live, stating he was in pain. In the video there appears to be blood on his pink T-shirt. Vance also said in the video that he was about to steal another car. "Watch this, people. Letting y'all know... look, this is real. See, that's a f---ing gun. That's the real deal. This sh-t ain't a joke. This ain't a prank," he says in the video before thanking his sister. "Sis, I love you and thank you for believing in me." Vance stole a Lincoln Town Car from a woman at a nearby mobile park and then shot at her, according to CNN affiliate KOCO. The woman was injured but not taken to the hospital, KOCO said.  In a second Facebook video Sunday, Vance was seen in a different car and there appeared to be a rifle or shotgun next to him in the vehicle, according to the affidavit. On Sunday around 11:30 pm ET the stolen Lincoln Town Car was spotted parked outside a home in Luther, outside Oklahoma City.  As police arrived at the scene, a helicopter spotted a body outside the home, according to the affidavit. When authorities went inside they found the body of a second victim.  Authorities have identified the victims as Ronald Wilkson and Valerie Kay Wilkson, according to the affidavit. Ronald had been shot and both victims had stab wounds, according to the affidavit. A large knife that appeared to have blood on it was recovered in the kitchen sink. Authorities also found a pink T-shirt believed to have been the shirt Vance was wearing in the Facebook videos.  Family members informed investigators that the Wilksons' Mitsubishi Eclipse was missing. The Oklahoma Highway Patrol said a man matching Vance's description and driving a Mitsubishi Eclipse shot someone at a Flying J truck stop at about 2:38 a.m. Monday on Interstate 40 near Sayre, some 130 miles west of Oklahoma City. He was last seen fleeing on the interstate, authorities said. Authorities have put out a wanted flyer for Vance, who had recently gotten out of jail, Dougherty said.    He's described as a "heavy set male" standing 5 foot 11 inches tall and weighing 212 pounds. According to the flyer, the suspect has a "medical condition and may try to spread disease." While the medical condition was not specified, Oklahoma County Sheriff's spokesman Mark Opgrande told CNN it is "a communicable disease that can be transmitted by blood. "It's possible he may attempt to spread it to others if he is put in a situation where that would be possible," Opgrande said.