Cher is not really thinking that Sonny Bono is burning in hell.  In fact, the singer-actress apparently misses her ex-husband. Cher's zinger response to a fan's question last week during a Facebook chat spurred a slew of news stories by writers who seem to have forgotten the type of comedy that fueled the Sonny and Cher comedy show back in the '70s.  Her stinging jokes about Sonny were for laughs, not revenge. Cher, who is about to embark on her "farewell" tour, sat at a computer for several hours on Thursday answering questions posted by fans on her Facebook page.   One question set Cher up as well as any line Sonny fed her on their classic variety show. "If Sonny Bono were still alive today, but you only had a minute to talk to him, what would you say?" the fan asked. "How hot is it where you just came from?" Cher said.  You could almost see her tongue in her cheek as she typed. Did Cher just suggest that Bono went to hell after his fatal ski accident in 1998?   Scroll down, and you'll see her response to another fan asking: "Do you miss Sonny?" "I think about him a lot sometimes," Cher said. "There are things about him that I miss." Her "how hot is it" joke is reminiscent of the punchlines that Cher, dressed in a Bob Mackie gown, targeted at Sonny to the delight of millions of viewers. She's still got it. Cher's Facebook exchanges give insight into what she does in her spare time, her likes and dislikes, what she would like to do with the rest of her life and who her friends are. So that you don't have to read through the 9,000 other questions posted to gain insight from the several dozen that Cher answered, we've summarized the most interesting of them here as they appeared on Facebook: Cher shares beauty advice Fan: "What do you do to keep yourself in shape and healthy?" Cher: "I don't smoke, drink or do drugs. Maybe twice a year I have a shot of Papi. Don't eat meat AND chose wisely in the gene department." (Please share any insight about "Papi" in the comment section.) Fan: "You are amazing woman and give out so much but I do have one question how do you keep so thin? You look fabulous." Cher:  "I literally work my A-- off. Thank god I like exercising!!!" Fan: "When you look in the mirror, do you see truly how beautiful you are?" Cher: "I don't look in mirrors." Fan: "What skin products do you use on your face? Your skin is awesome!" Cher:  "I use Jan Marini and sometimes Proactive." Fan: "I've always been curious about the pink toned eyeshadow, why?" Cher: "I don't know. It used to start with blue. I used to make my own eye shadow when I was younger, because I couldn't get what I wanted, I would make it an a double boiler. I don't know it just kind of started that way. And now it's kind of pink and purple with colored stones, I like doing that. And glitter, for anyone that hasn't figured that out already." Fan: "Do you like to be a brunette or blonde better?" Cher: "I don't care I'm going to be one one day, another the next day. Kinda keeps going around in a circle!" Fan: "What is your real hair like?" Cher: "Black and long. But I cut it recently, but I'm going to let it grow really long. It's too short, but it's not long enough, I'm used to it being really long. It's about 6 or 8 inches below my shoulders." Fan: "Did you know you were a Diva before anyone knew the meaning?" Cher: "Absolutely.  The first thing I said to the doctor "Make sure you cut me a nice belly button, I'm going to be showing it to the world." Cher's likes and dislikes Fan: "What are your biggest passions, cause-wise?" Cher: "I HATE injustice, people who can't defend themselves, children and old people. Then there is the TEA PARTY !!!!! I wish they'd go to Boston and throw themselves overboard." Fan: "Whats Your Favorite Ice Cream Flavor?" Cher: "OOOooo. Rocky Road and Chocolate Chip. And I also like Pistachio. Those are my three favorites. And Haagen Daz strawberry ice cream. I could eat a whole pint of it, and I have. I once ate a dozen Enteman's donuts, and four chocolate dove bars and I didn't even offer Jen a bit. I'd been in court for a week, and I couldn't eat because it was so traumatic for me, and 9/11 happened in the middle of it, and I almost lost the case; after I won the case I went to the market and got all of it and I didn't even get sick.  We lost one juror because he said he was working for SATAN!" Fan: "What is your favorite color?" Cher: "Black.  If black is not a color and I love white and if I have to have a color, turquoise or anything neon. This is why I'd never be good one of those dating things, and I had multiple answers to the questions." Fan: "Which do you prefer as a pet dogs or cats? Cher: "I like them both. I've had a couple of dogs I love, and I have mr. Big and I had another cat Jack named after Jack Nicholson. And I had a horse, an Appaloosa name Red Mark." Fan: What is your favorite flower? Cher: "I like -- it's a tossup -- gardenias, oh, the kind of jasmine you get in Tahiti but I don't know what it's called and casablanca lilies." Fan: "What Is Your Favorite Holiday?" Cher: "Ground hog day" Bob Mackie Fan: "What is your favorite costume that Bob Mackie has made for you?" Cher: "Oh the outfit that I wore on the Academy Awards when I gave the best performing actor award to Don Ameche, Turn Back Time and the cover of Time Magazine" Fan: "Is Bob Mackie doing the costumes for the new tour? I think he really makes a perfect duet partner for you!" Cher: "Yes he is. It will be both of our Farewell tours." Fan: "Since you're known for incredible and elaborate costumes, do you like dressing up? Or are you more of a casual person?" Cher: "I'm so casual that's crazy. I'm some type of a bum, kind of a bum." Cher's celeb friends Fan: "Do you really hang out with Kathy Griffin or does she just make that up?" Cher: "No we hang out. THE pizza story is absolutely true."  (Griffin uses the story in her stand-up act about Cher not knowing how to order pizza for delivery to her Malibu home.) Fan: "What's your most fondest memory of you and Michael Jackson's friendship?" Cher: "I guess him teaching me the routine we did together on TV All of us, because he was so sweet and it was complicated for me. You can see it on Youtube, it's Cher and the Jackson 5. There is another memory I had -- I wanted beaded socks from BOB (Mackie) and I was wearing them and Michael was fascinated with them and I kept saying 'they are MY socks!!!'" Fan: "Do you still think Letterman is an a--hole?" Cher: "Yah but that's what I love about him." Fan: "How was working with Jack Nicholson?" Cher: "Oh, it's wonderful, he's a love. I've known him my whole adult life. He is more amazing then people think he is, and so kind, and he loves women. Actually he loves hanging out with women. He painted a little bull for me for my birthday because we are both Tauruses. Taurus people rule!" Touring Fan: "Are you looking forward to going back on tour?" Cher: "Um, I don't know. It's been a long time and it's a lot of work, and I'm just going to take it as it comes. I love to put on shows, but I have to just take it a little bit at a time. I don't do things easily, ART is sometimes hard. Because if I don't I'll just get nervous." Fan: "What is your most memorable moment from being on tour?" Cher: "The time I got my hair stuck in my costume at the Astrodome. I got my hair stuck in my zipper!!" Fan: "Will you film the upcoming tour?" Cher: "Yes! I should have filmed the Las Vegas show it was really good. I'll never do another show without filming." Fan: "Will you come to Brazil?" Cher: "I really wanted to this time, there was no support from Warner Brothers Brazil down there so they didn't have me go down but I was hoping to go." Fan: "Do you ever see yourself retiring completely?" Cher: "Oh yeah sure. Jen says no. I keep think I'm going to, but I won't tour again." (She is likely referring to Jennifer Ruiz, Cher's longtime assistant.) Music Fan: "How do you keep your voice so strong, and clear?" Cher: "I practice." Fan: "Does music still feed your soul Cher?" Cher: "It's such a strange relationship, but I do LOVE singing. I like just like the feeling of it. I actually like the physical feeling of it." Fan: "Are you pleased with what you've accomplished with your new album?" Cher: "Yes!  I'm over the moon." Fan: "What's your favorite singer of this generation?" Cher:  "Oh my god that's so hard. Adele. I think Adele." Fan: "Which was your favorite album to make? And why?" Cher: "Gosh -- maybe Believe because I was at a really low point in my career and I'd been dropped by my record company. The head of Warner's UK this amazing man named Rob Dickens and he gave me the chance to have a career again. I went there alone because my manager had left me. I was liking a singing Lazarus." Fan: "Have you ever thought of collaborating with Madonna?" Cher: "Actually I have. I think I'd really like to do something with Madge.  This is the thing that I think is interesting about her. That she used music as a way to do ART. Music is the canvas, it's not the finished painting.  OMG between the two of us, what are we like 200 hundred years old???!" Television Fan: "Have you considered being a full-time judge on the Voice?" Cher: "Well, it actually seems like it might be a lot of fun. Honestly. It was a lot of work but it was fun." Fan: "Looking forward to seeing you be a Judge on DWTS..." Cher: "I'm EXCITED I have no idea what it's like to be a judge but I was just a mentor on the Voice. Chaz said that he would come and give me some pointers." (Chaz Bono was a Dancing With the Stars contestant in 2011.) Fan: "What is your favorite television show?" Cher: "Turner Classic movies of course, and then the Long Island Medium. Long Island Medium is the only reality show I'm ever going to watch and I don't consider the VOICE a reality show, but something special unto itself. It's just BLISS." Movies Fan: "One of favorite movies of all time is Mask.  Did you enjoy making the movie as much as I enjoyed watching it?" Cher: "I did enjoy making the movie with the actors, I did not enjoy working with the director.  Until about the last third he was really mean to me."  (Peter Bogdanovich, who directed Cher in the 1985 film, has publicly expressed his dissatisfaction about working with her.) Fan: "What was the last movie you watched?" Cher: "I watched AMERICAN Psycho it was so scary, by myself in the middle of the night." Fan: "Waiting on a new movie. Any in the works?" Cher: "I have things coming up, but it's bad luck if you talk about things before things are locked. I'm working on three different things but I don't want to talk about them." Fan: "Given the opportunity, if there was one part you could play, film or stage, what would it be and why? Also, have you thought about directing?" Cher: "The Glass Menagerie on Broadway. Absolutely, I did it once, actually a couple of times. If These Wal