NEWS / 2 Nov 2017 / Jaden Social #Newsfeed: Facebook beats Q3 estimate with US$4.7 billion profit; KFC, McDonald’s and Burger King are in a Twitter war; Jimmy Barnes debuts at No. 1 on the bestsellers list Share: 
Plus 12 emerging styling trends that will dominate Instagram in 2018. 
Regardless of the ongoing inquiry into Russia’s interference with the US election, Facebook has still managed to post an incredible US$4.7 billion profit for Q3. In the earnings announcement today, Facebook’s profitability climbed 79% year-over-year, and continues its streak of beating estimates. As for users counts, Facebook now has 2.06 billion monthly active users, up 3.19% compared to last quarter’s 2.006 billion and 3.4% growth rate. Daily active users reached 1.37 billion, up 3.8% quarter-over-quarter. 
Read all of the latest earnings and user stats here . Google may have fixed its burger emoji, after the famous debate on Twitter over the placement of cheese, but global fast food brands McDonald’s, KFC and Burger King are not done with the discussion yet. After writer and prolific Twitter user Thomas Baekdal pointed out the fault in the location of the cheese on Google’s burger emoji, fast food chains decided to cash in on this opportunity and put out tweets claiming that their respective burgers are the best – and the conversation hasn’t stopped. 
Read all of the burger banter for yourself here . 
As part of his Q3 earnings call, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status both now have 300 million daily active users. That makes the copies almost twice the size of the original, as Snapchat’s entire app only has 173 million daily active users . Zuckerberg said that he sees fostering community around video as a big push for Facebook – and it’s sister companies – as it shifts from focusing on “time spent” on the company’s family of apps to “time well spent”. Which sits perfectly with the goal of Instagram Stories. 
Read more about Instagram Stories user numbers here . Aussie rock legend (and Jaden Social client) Jimmy Barnes has earned himself another top-selling book, with his Working Class Man memoir debuting at No. 1 this week. Adding the title of one of Australia’s most successful authors to his long list of achievements, Jimmy knocked mystery king Dan Brown off the top slot, and his publisher Harper Collins has now extended the hardcover print run to a phenomenal 160,000 copies. 
Read more about this story here .