Photo: The Huon Valley Council apologised "if it offended anyone". (Facebook: Huon Valley Council) 
On Monday, the Huon Valley Council Facebook page said the tree, which stood on the side of the road in Huonville, 38 kilometres south of Hobart, was knocked over as part of number of incidents over the weekend. 
A lawnmower was set alight in a public toilet, while an oven put out as a free pickup for someone in need, was taken to a nearby skate park and also set on fire. 
So incensed was a council employee they took to the Huon Valley Council's Facebook page with a rant against those responsible. 
"OK, the challenge — try to write this and not get sacked," the post read. "This is beyond a joke and unacceptable. 
"We all like to let our hair down and have a bit of fun — but you've got to draw a line when it impacts on other people in your community, a distinction some people obviously don't realise or care about. It really makes you wonder sometimes when a small minority of idiots can ruin things for the majority of us. 
"We found the Christmas tree trashed, this time past the point of no return, so there's $3,000 gone and we're not replacing it." 
The infuriated council employee backhanded those persons responsible for incinerating the mower with "great work, you're a legend". 
"You're not really, you're a massive ****. Photo: The oven was left at the skate park and set on fire. (Facebook: Huon Valley Council) 
"Then someone took an oven that was being offered free and set fire to it at the skate park at Huonville. The young skaters cleaned it up by themselves." 
The council employee wrote Tasmania Police had been "notified and are investigating" and urged anyone with information to come forward. 
"And if you had any role in this senseless damage over the weekend, give yourself an uppercut (or six)," the council Facebook post suggested. Page 'shouldn't represent personal opinions' 
Members of the public wrote they understood the employee's rage over the incidents, and said they should not be penalised for expressing their frustrations publicly. Photo: The public rallied behind the unnamed council employee who posted the rant. (Facebook: Huon Valley Council) 
The post vanished from the council's Facebook page on Monday. 
In a subsequent post later that day, Huon Valley Council general manager Emilio Reale wrote the earlier post "contained a staff member's personal opinions, the language used was not approved by the Huon Valley Council". 
"The staff member has been counselled for the language used as it was not to the professional standards expected by the Huon Valley Council," Mr Reale said. 
"Whilst the Huon Valley Council is extremely disappointed with the vandalism that occurred it does not endorse or condone public name calling or use of council's Facebook page to represent personal opinions. 
"I apologise for the language used in the post if it offended anyone." 
Mr Reale told the ABC the town, which has a population of just under 2,000, would rebound from the vandalism incidents. 
"We don't suffer from this sort of thing very often, this is unusual for Huonville and the Valley," he said. 
Mr Reale also praised the skaters for their actions in cleaning up the mess. 
"It just shows how resilient our community is," he said. 
"The town will bounce back."