Share this article with Google Plus Share this article with Whatsapp Share this article through email Share this article through sms He was also wanted on recall to prison for breaching his licence for grievous bodily harm and burglary two years ago. (Picture: Facebook/ Lee Mapstone) 
A fugitive wanted for kidnap and robbery is taunting police by posting ‘holiday snaps’ of his visits to London tourist spots while on the run. 
Lee Mapstone, 36, has been on the run for kidnap and robbery offences since September 25. Bodybuilder jailed after beating up two ex-girlfriends when they finished with him 
He was also wanted on recall to prison for breaching his licence for grievous bodily harm and burglary two years ago. 
However, the brazen criminal will not stop winding up police – goading them with photos of Buckingham Palace, The Ritz Hotel and other spots during ‘day trips’ on Facebook. 
The outlaw even took a photo outside London’s Paddington Green Police Station and said: ‘Was going to hand myself in but had change of heart.’ Wiltshire Police admit intelligence shows he ‘may now be in London’ as he remains on the run. (Picture: SWNS) 
He mocked police officers by saying they were ‘shit at hide and seek’. 
His campaign continued last night as he returned to the capital after posting pictures of a flying weekend visit to his Swindon home town. 
He snapped a road sign for a police station and wrote: ‘Well was in Swindon yesterday. Just to let them know I done a flying visit and took these on the way back to London. Fuck the police.’ 
Wiltshire Police admit intelligence shows he ‘may now be in London’ as he remains on the run. 
He has been tagging Metropolitan Police officers in posts for the last four weeks. The outlaw even took a photo outside London’s Paddington Green Police Station and said: ‘Was going to hand myself in but had change of heart.’ (Picture: SWNS) The brazen criminal will not stop winding up police – goading them with photos of Buckingham Palace, The Ritz Hotel and other spots during ‘day trips’ on Facebook. (Picture: SWNS) 
On November 10 he posted a photo of the front of Paddington Green Police Station and said: ‘Was going to hand my self in but had change of heart see u later boys’. 
Five days later Mapstone shared a snap of six uniformed officers standing next to marked motorbikes saying: ‘All they do is eat doughnuts and drink coffee’. Thief stole elderly woman's pension after she collapsed in street 
Later that day he shared a picture of an armed police officer he called ‘a barbie girl’. 
Friends encouraged him on as he they called him ‘soppy’ for posting holiday snaps of Christmas lights near Oxford Street the following evening. 
He has shared links to news stories about him mocking police telling his followers: ‘They are shit at hide and seek I will keep running lol. It’s all fun and games for me lol.’ 
Under a picture of China Town, he said: ‘Avin a great time in London this is China town wicked place love it. Friends encouraged him on as he they called him ‘soppy’ for posting holiday snaps of Christmas lights near Oxford Street the following evening. (Picture: SWNS) Five days later Mapstone shared a snap of six uniformed officers standing next to marked motorbikes saying: ‘All they do is eat doughnuts and drink coffee’. (Picture: SWNS) 
‘Being on the run seeing all this safe bro.’ 
Wiltshire Police appealed for witnesses to help trace Mapstone, of Swindon, Wiltshire, two weeks ago. Britain First deputy leader Jayda Smith arrested over Belfast speech 
A spokesman said: ‘Our inquiries are continuing in to information we have received, including intelligence from Facebook, that Lee Mapstone may now be in London. 
‘We are renewing our appeal for anyone who knows the whereabouts of Lee Mapstone to contact us immediately. 
‘If you do see him please do not approach him, instead call 999 immediately and give his exact location, description of clothing and any items he may be carrying.’ More