police & fire 'Freedom Fighter' Talks God, Big Brother On Facebook (ICYMI) Nilsa Urena, 25, of Philadelphia, is accused of masterminding and leading four Atlanta area bank robberies while claiming a political cause. 0 
DOUGLASVILLE, GA — On Facebook, an account that appears to be the woman accused of robbing four banks in metro Atlanta talks about God and government conspiracies and suggests that an apocalypse is coming. Nilsa Marie Urena, 25, of Philadelphia, is accused of masterminding and carrying out a string of bank robberies throughout metro Atlanta — two of them with the help of two teenagers who have since been arrested. 
She's been dubbed the "Freedom Fighter Bandit" because police and the FBI have said the bank robber claimed to be stealing in the name of a social cause. The Facebook account in question is under the name Nilsa Marie Urena, who identifies as living in Philadelphia. One post references being in Atlanta and another talks about being from Panama and wanting to return. 
Police say Urena, whose whereabouts are unknown, purchased a plane ticket to Panama, but didn't use it. 
(See the post at the bottom of this story.) Public posts on the account had largely been dormant since June, when its owner posted photos that resemble the woman in pictures released by law enforcement in the bank robberies. The post mentions being "in the A" — a reference to Atlanta. 
But they picked up again, taking an odd turn, this month, after authorities say four banks in metro Atlanta — in Douglasville, Loganville, Stone Mountain and Ellenwood — were allegedly robbed by Urena and her crew.On Tuesday, as authorities were preparing to identify Urena as their suspect in the case, the account posted what appears to be a claim of being under government surveillance. 
"We been bugged by big brother!!!!" reads the post, which contains profanity. "Y'all frisking through technology." The post includes hashtags referencing the Black Lives Matter movement, Big Brother and the Illuminati — a group which some conspiracy theories say secretly controls the world. 
Another post that day, accompanied by a photo of President Donald Trump, seems to suggest that an apocalyptic race war of some sort is coming. "Wake up! Let's head back home. We are the Jews!" the post says. "This is Hitler blonde and blue eyes the perfect race. History lied. It's about to happen." 
While saying the suspect claimed political motivations, authorities have not publicly said what cause, if any, she has claimed during the robberies. 
"That's a good question," FBI Special Agent Stephen Emmett told Fox 5 Atlanta . "We'll be asking her when we have her in custody." 
On Wednesday, the day authorities named Urena as the suspect in the case, a Facebook post appears to taunt them. "I ain't afraid of a ghost!" the post reads. 
Posts later Wednesday quote Bible verses from Revelations referencing the Apocalypse."God is coming to destroy the UN empire and free the human race," the account holder wrote. "We win! The body of Christ is forming! Y'all lose ... God Vs the Gov(ernment)." 
The post also cryptically mentions "8 heads in a duffle bag" and says "Allah God is Greatest." 
On Nov. 3 at around 10:30 a.m., a woman and a male teen walked into the Georgia's Own Credit Union at 2437 Loganville Hwy. Police say they waited for an available teller, then presented a note saying the woman had a bomb. 
A little over two hours later, the same woman and a man entered the Bank of the Ozarks, at 9001 Hospital Dr. in Douglasville. They both walked up to the teller counter and said they had a bomb they would detonate if they weren't given money, according to the FBI. After getting an undisclosed amount of money, they left. 
Those robberies followed a similar pattern to ones reported the previous Monday. At about 10 a.m. that day, the woman went into the Wells Fargo bank at 6063 Memorial Dr. in Stone Mountain. She showed a demand note on her cellphone but, when she was denied money, she left the bank without doing anything else. 
About an hour later, she walked into Associated Credit Union, at 5032 Old Grant Rd. in Ellenwood and, again, demanded money with a note. Authorities say she threatened to have an explosive advice this time, as well.Douglas County authorities have arrested Devon Morris, 17, and a 16-year-old in the case. 
Morris is being held at Douglas County Jail and the juvenile is being held at a youth detention facility. In Gwinnett County, Morris and Urena have active warrants for robbery and the 16 year old has been charged with robbery as a juvenile. 
Photos courtesy Douglas County Sheriff's Office