Contact 'Native girl' Facebook post sparks outcry Man says racism was not his intent after he allegedly found “native girl” in truck, made controversial post on Facebook 
Tuesday, Nov 14, 2017 06:00 am 
A A 
More than 100 comments were on a local Facebook post describing alleged mischief by a “native girl” in Athabasca, spurring outcry for remarks some say were offensive and racist. 
Christian Mueller made the post to the “Anything Goes Athabasca!” Facebook page Oct. 30. In the post, Mueller said that a “native girl” had broken into his vehicle. 
“Anyone else have their vehicle broken into last night? Up around ltis school, caught a native girl in my vehicle about 2:00am” he wrote. 
Other commenters then left remarks that garnered scrutiny from others. One example was a response by Clarence Yates, who said “take her to the river” with a laughing emoticon at the end of his comment. 
Mueller said he just wanted to warn people about theft in the area. 
“As far as I’m concerned, describing someone’s race – I definitely don’t see that as racism. If they had been white, I would have said white. If they had been Asian, I would have said Asian. My intent was not for any racism,” Mueller said. 
However, several other respondents saw the racial profile as offensive. Cheri Courtorielle, an Indigenous woman who lives in Calling Lake, made multiple posts outlining issues with the comment. She said in an interview adding the part that the alleged culprit was “native” opened up the conversation for people to say hurtful and racist things. 
“Could have easily said what she was wearing instead of it being a ‘Native girl’ or an ‘Asian lady.’ We’re all people. At the end of the day, we’re all the same. We all bleed red,” Courtorielle said. “It’s just another form of bullying.” 
Courtorielle said Yates’ comment was wrong, especially given there has been an Indigenous woman who was found dead along the Athabasca River. 
Ruth Cocks was last seen leaving the Grand Union Hotel on March 28, 2008. Her body was found 10 days later on the banks of the river. 
“It’s insensitive and unnecessary is what it is,” Courtorielle said. 
Yates was contacted multiple times over the past two weeks for comment on this story, but did not respond before publish time. 
Mueller said he was not associated with the other comments made by others in response to his post. 
“It was strictly giving a description of the lady that was caught in my vehicle. There was a bunch of other people in there, that there was some race stuff, but I don’t want to be associated with that,” Mueller said. “I can’t control what people comment.” 
The post on the Facebook page has since been deleted, which Mueller said was done by a moderator of the page. 
Courtorielle said that she does not see the post as reflective of Athabasca, adding that the community has always made her feel welcome. But she said it is important to speak up against the kind of language being used in the thread. 
“It doesn’t matter if you’re Native, you’re white or you’re Asian. If someone is saying something hurtful, it’s not right, and it shouldn’t be done,” she said. “We all have to stand up to it.”