0 NEW from Facebook this week: You’ll soon be able to add a Messenger live Customer Chat plugin to your website ! Facebook says this was one of their most highly requested features. It has HUGE potential for high-tech and high-touch customer support through Messenger, which has 1.2 billion monthly users and growing. And, keep in mind, close to 90% of Facebook’s 2.07Bn users access predominantly on their mobile devices. 
This feature is currently in closed beta. Beta partners launching this week include: AdoreMe, Air France, Argos, Aviva (Eurofil), Bodeaz, Elves, Goibibo, Keto Mojo, KLM, Mermaid Pillow, Spoqa, Total Activation, Volaris and Zalando. You can apply to be on the waitlist . In the coming year, we’re going to see more and more adoption of messaging services — not necessarily in place of regular email — but certainly increased usage and especially for commerce and customer care. Facebook Messenger Rolls Out Website Plugin Customer Chat Tool Find out more about this exciting new Messenger website plugin and how to apply to be on the waitlist . Plus, did you get a chance to read my latest epic blog post? All about the Facebook News Feed changes . This Week’s Top 3 Articles 1. 10 Things We Learned About Marketing This Year via BrandWatch.com My good friend Steve Rayson from BuzzSumo (recently acquired by BrandWatch) is a total ninja when it comes to research and analyzing the data for key takeaways. I love the studies in this super-informative article. For example, #2 – bloggers are spending more time on content production and producing less content. What does that mean? Move over short-form blogging, long-form is in! Indeed, this is what I did on my latest blog post about Facebook’s News Feed changes and tests – over 4,000 words. (Oh, and #4 on Steve’s list gets me most excited, hehee!) 2. New Features for Facebook Groups to Build Communities via Facebook.com In June of this year Facebook announced a new mission: “Give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together.” An important part of this initiative was to support group admins by giving them tools to grow, improve, and manage their groups. Continuing in their efforts, Facebook recently added more new features in groups—both for admins and members. Love that!! 🙂 3. Facebook is Quietly Becoming an Enterprise Software Giant via BusinessInsider.com More than 30,000 organizations are using Facebook Workplace now—that’s up from 14,000 back in April! Just like with Facebook’s beginnings, making money with Workplace isn’t a priority at the moment but it seems like they’re building a full-fledged communication platform and the product’s early growth may end up being tough competition for Microsoft and Slack. That’s all for this week’s issue of The Social Scoop. I hope you enjoy the rest of your week! 
P.S. Want my own recommended VIDEO GEAR LIST ? Woohoo, it’s here at last!!!! This gorgeous 28-page resource is finally ready. It’s in 3 sections: Lighting, Microphones and Cameras. If you already let me know you want the resource, look out for an email from me landing in your inbox shortly. Or, if you haven’t already, do sign up for access here . 
Plus, my brand new Facebook training program is about to launch: FAST FACEBOOK RESULTS: Facebook Ads Strategy Training & Facebook Live Success Secrets . I’ll keep you posted. 🙂