Youtube 30 houses in a Hindu village torched in Bangaldesh's Rangpur over Facebook post 
Reports from Bangladesh suggest that a Hindu village in Rangpur district was allegedly torched by 20,000-strong crowd over a rumoured Facebook post. IndiaToday.in | Edited by Prabhash K Dutta A + A - Hindu village torched in Bangladesh: Picture for representation. (Photo: Reuters file) 
A mob of angry protesters has set on fire at least 30 houses of Hindus in Bangladesh following rumours that a youth from the minority community posted an offensive Facebook status. 
According to a Dhaka Tribune report, one person was killed when police opened fire to disperse the crowd that launched the arson attack on the houses of Hindus on Friday. The incident took place in Rangpur district's Thakurpara village, about 300 km from Dhaka. 
The report also said that the attackers looted and vandalised a good number of houses in that village. A rumour shaped and vented the anger of the Muslims in the neighbouring villages against the Hindu community. 
The rumour was that one Titu Roy, originally from Thakurbari village but currently living in Narayanganj, put up a Facebook post defaming Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) a few days ago, the paper said. 
The attack was carried out by a section among the 20,000-strong crowd that was reportedly mustered out from six to seven neighbouring villages after the Jumma prayers, the daily reported. 
There was a melee of chases and counter chases between the law enforcers and the crowd. At one point, police fired tear gas shells and rubber bullets to control the situation, the report said. 
POLICE TAKE CONTROL OF SITUATION 
At least five persons were injured when police fired rubber bullets and lobbed tear gas shells to bring the situation under control, it said. Before the police intervened, the perpetrators had torched at least 30 Hindu houses before looting and vandalising them, the report said. A crowd of 20,000 people had reportedly gathered from six to seven neighbouring villages before the attack was launched by a group of people, it said. 
The police had a tough time dealing with the protesters and restoring the law and order situation in the area, the report said. Six persons with bullet injuries were rushed to a nearby hospital when one of them succumbed to his injuries, the report said. 
Police have detained 33 people in connection with the incident, bdnews24 reported. There were traffic snarls after the mob blocked the Rangpur-Dinajpur highway to protest against the police action. 
A large number of police personnel have been deployed in the area where the situation was tense, Kotwali police station Officer-in-Charge (Operation) Moktarul Islam said. The district administration has formed a three-member inquiry committee, headed by Additional District Magistrate Abu Rafa Mohammad Rafiq, to investigate the incident and submit a report in seven days, the report added. 
(With PTI inputs) For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in . ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.