advertise a facebook page with paid ads 
need to advertise my page with paid ads, boost and promote page 
my main concern first is to check if boost gets approved, then we will hire you 
contact for details ( 0 comentarios ) Coventry, United Arab Emirates ID de proyecto: #15597632 ¡Ofrécete a trabajar en este proyecto ahora! El proceso de oferta termina en 6 días. Abierto - quedan 6 días Tu oferta para este trabajo USD Establece tu presupuesto y plazo Describe tu propuesta Recibe dinero por tu trabajo Es gratis registrarse y ofertar en los trabajos 16 los freelancers están ofertando un promedio de $121 para este trabajo. kellysharma Hi there, May I know what kind of services you are showcasing by the means of your facebook page? Also you must be having website of your services, can I see the link of it? Relevant Skills and Experience Targeting s Más $155 USD en 3 días (5 comentarios) Hi there I can get approved your facebook page campaign For more information, feel free to ask me regarding this Relevant Skills and Experience Facebook PPC, SEO, Google Adwords etc Proposed Milestones $155 USD - Wi Más $155 USD en 3 días (3 comentarios) Hello Sir, i am professional in creating Facebook paid ads. Hire me and let me start working right away. Looking forward to hearing from you Relevant Skills and Experience social media marketing Proposed Milestones $ Más $30 USD en 1 día (2 comentarios) $50 USD en 3 días (1 comentario) $155 USD en 3 días (0 comentarios) digital advertising agency provide assistance in promotion of your social media pages we guarantee high quality resits from 3rd day of campaign setup provide written milestones and ROI for campaign Relevant Skills an Más $222 USD en 22 días (0 comentarios) Ajay40rawat Hi, I'm interested in you project and I would like to know more details. Kindly drop a message so that we can discuss in detail. I have been in the industry for 12 years and such jobs are my daily practice. This is th Más $111 USD en 2 días (0 comentarios)