Paula Mooney 
Anthony McClanahan is a 46-year-old one-time NFL player who is now the prime murder suspect in the death of his 28-year-old wife, Keri “KC” McClanahan. Painting himself on Instagram and Facebook as a devoted husband who was also a celebrity bootcamp trainer, McClanahan is now receiving backlash on social media, as reports of alleged domestic violence and scamming people to purportedly raise funds for hurricane victims are making the round online. According to the Salt Lake City Tribune , Anthony is the primary suspect in the wake of KC being found dead in Park City, Utah, at the Park Regency Resort condominiums. 
Keri was discovered with knife wounds on her neck and in the wake of her death, McClanahan’s sister, Heather Gauf, described a marriage that involved domestic abuse in the short time since the duo wed in January. Keri had already left Anthony twice during their 10-month marriage, briefly returning to Washington, but rejoining McClanahan in their Arizona home before once again seeking safety in Utah. 
McClanahan was a mother of two children, but Anthony was not their biological father. Meanwhile, Keri’s sister said that McClanahan attempted to peg his behavior on football injuries. On Facebook, allegations of Anthony collecting funds that he purportedly used to live that were intended for hurricane victims are being made. Rip Off Report contains complaints about Anthony’s 41 Sports that range from adultery to sexual assault and beyond. @Joy_Villa can you contact this man ex cowboy #AnthonyMcClanahan met him on boat rescue been to 30+ gofundme he needs help. Working hard pic.twitter.com/DKAVX19M5F 
— Guy Hartung (@guydhartung) September 3, 2017 
Perhaps it was Anthony’s purported passion for helping people that drew Keri to McClanahan, since her sister noted that Keri also had a love of helping humans and animals. Keri can be seen in the below photo with a cat in her lap on Anthony’s Facebook page. Called a woman with a “beautiful spirit,” Keri is hoping via her sister to be remembered for who she was and not have her story lost in the fact that Anthony was a former football player. 
Meanwhile, Anthony is collecting plenty of hateful reactions online, with at least one Facebook comment relating how much McClanahan disgusts him, even as Keri is gaining sympathetic commentary from those who wrote that they wished they knew she was suffering in silence. A post shared by Anthony McClanahan (@anthonymcclanahan) on Sep 9, 2017 at 5:36pm PDT 
Anthony was very active on social media, with many photos displaying McClanahan traveling to various locations with Keri and others, appearing to deliver relief supplies to those in need. 
Anthony wrote a long Facebook post detailing what he claimed was the account of him witnessing the verbal abuse of children recently.