Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Ask our TV critic anything, get your answers on Facebook Live Join USA TODAY's Kelly Lawler to talk about the tube. Post to Facebook A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 1 To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Ask our TV critic anything, get your answers on Facebook Live USA TODAY Published 8:00 a.m. ET July 17, 2017 | Updated 12:41 p.m. ET Nov. 27, 2017 Freddie Highmore as Shaun on 'The Good Doctor.' (Photo: Jack Rowand, ABC) CONNECT 1 COMMENT EMAIL MORE USA TODAY's Critic's Corner chat takes place Monday afternoons, when we talk TV with fans. Chatters should visit the USA TODAY Life page on Facebook at 2 p.m. ET/11 a.m. PT, when Kelly Lawler will be answering questions live. However, you may email early questions to . We will continue to accept early questions submitted via Twitter. Tweet your early questions to @klawls. Kelly will then include selected Twitter questions in the live video chat on Mondays at 2 p.m. ET/11 a.m. PT at facebook.com/usatodaylife . Watch Kelly answer reader questions at the USA TODAY Life page on Facebook when the chat returns at 2 p.m. ET/11 a.m. PT Mondays. Here are recent questions and answers: 
Allegra Acosta as Molly, Ariela Barer as Gert Lyrica Okano as Nico, Rhenzy Feliz as Alex, Gregg Sulkin as Chase and Virginia Gardner as Karolina on 'Marvel's Runaways.' (Photo: Paul Sarkis, Hulu) Are the supernatural characters (in Marvel's Runaways ) relatable? The new Hulu Marvel series, about six teens who discover their parents are evil, has characters with a range of powers and gadgets. But yes, they are relatable, which is one of the main things that makes Runaways so much better than a series like Marvel's Inhumans , which also premiered this fall. Runaways ' characters may have supernatural abilities but they are grounded in human emotion and problems. In this case, the heroes are teenagers dealing with puberty, high school and relationships and the villains are parents doing the wrong things for what they believe are the right reasons. On Inhumans it was impossible to relate to the thinly-sketched Inhuman royal family. Do you watch The Good Doctor and what do you think about it? I have seen a bit of The Good Doctor and, unfortunately, it's one of those shows that's just not quite "for me." I understand why it's so popular right now. It's an earnest and heartwarming series that oozes sentiment at every turn. Like last year's breakout hit, This Is Us , it's emotional comfort food with an appealing cast. For me, it's just a little too sentimental, almost mawkish. But I see why a lot of people disagree. 
Elijah Wood starred in the big-screen adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien's book trilogy, 'The Lord of the Rings,' which will now serve as the basis for an Amazon multi-season TV adaptation. (Photo: PIERRE VINET, NEW LINE CINEMA) What are your thoughts on Amazon's Lord of the Rings TV series? As a fan of both the Lord of the Rings films and the books, I don't think that returning to Middle Earth for a TV series is a very good idea. Hollywood has already stretched J.R.R. Tolkien's world too far in The Hobbit trilogy, which was a huge dip in quality from the original films. Amazon has not announced any details about the series, only that it will be a prequel to The Fellowship of the Ring . But it's already committed to multiple seasons. I just don't know if there's enough material to do that. What do you think of Season 5 of Mom ? So far it's pretty good. Mom is one of my favorite sitcoms on the air right now. I've always been happy that it knew how to reinvent itself , and this year it's exploring the sobriety journeys for Natasha (Missi Pyle) and Ray (Leonard Roberts), who are having drastically different experiences. The one thing I'm not crazy about is that they put Jill (Jaime Pressly) in a fat suit for lack of anything else to do with her. It seems cheap and has made Jill the butt of jokes; Mom usually deploys its humor with a defter hand. CONNECT 1 COMMENT EMAIL MORE