Australian Entrepreneur Recognised as a Legend in Facebook Advertising BusinessNET Generating over $1.4 Billion in sales via Facebook Ads campaign alone, it is safe to say that Aussie entrepreneur Ben Simkin is a Facebook marketing genius. Lytton, Queensland - November 3, 2017 - Australian Entrepreneur Ben Simkin has become the talk of the town for one astounding reason - by solely developing an effective Facebook marketing campaign, Ben generated a whopping $1.45 Billion in sales for clients. Ben Simkin is the founder of BusinessNET, a very successful company that has been helping several businesses to exploit the benefits of powerful online marketing strategies. In an interview with HuffPost, Ben said, “Over the years, I have worked with a wide variety of different industries, services and products. This has given me a huge amount of experience with many types of businesses. I can tell you that as long as there is a demand for it, Facebook ads will work very well regardless of whether you are targeting businesses or consumers.” Ben Simkin began with marketing for few of his clients that included renting of email lists and forwarding offers for them. Despite it achieving good results, Ben decided to take things up a notch when Facebook announced its new advertising platform. He realized its huge potential, thereby deciding to adopt the strategy for better results. He also revealed that it was purely a trial and error that turned out to be pretty successful.He also clarified that any type of business will equally benefit from Facebook advertisements, regardless of targeting consumers or businesses. His company BusinessNET has sold a plethora of products and services in various categories including yoga retreats, recipe books, business consulting and investments, with values ranging from as low as $27 all the way up to $500,000.BusinessNET has imparted a positive effect in each of their client’s business. Sales of the first company that they assisted skyrocketed from $35 million to $300 million in sales per year. In 2011, BusinessNET helped another client recoup its losses by earning $10 million in a short period of just 12 months. Ben Simkin says that the best approach to develop the right marketing strategy is the Target-Offer-Message (T-O-M) approach. This means providing the right offer to the right target, conveyed in the right way. He recommends spending adequate time and energy into spilt testing, once the ad is posted. About: Ben Simkin is a Facebook marketing expert and a recognised entrepreneur who founded BusinessNET. For more details, visit http://businessnet.com.au/ 
Media Contact