Mark Molloy 17 November 2017 • 11:32am 
S ocial media sensation Gary the Goat, whose antics made millions smile around the world, has died, his owner has confirmed. 
Gary, who had more than 1.7 million fans on Facebook , was touring Australia with his owner, comedian Jimbo Bazoobi, when he suffered a bleed from an acute heart tumour. 
Mr Bazoobi, whose real name is James Dezarnaulds, confirmed the world’s most famous goat had passed away in a Facebook post, adding he “gave so much happiness to so many people”. 
Gary the Goat’s meteoric rise to fame began when he started travelling around Australia performing stand-up comedy shows with his owner. 
A Facebook page for Gary was launched in 2012 and notoriety followed a year later when Bazoobi was fined for allowing his goat to eat plants on public property. 
H e was later cleared by an Australian court of destroying a flower bed outside a Sydney museum . 
YouTube stardom beckoned in 2014, when videos showing Gary at various events, including the Sydney Gay Mardi Gras and him gatecrashing a fun run, racked up millions of hits. 
His owner added in the Facebook post: “Gary died tonight aged six, on 16 November at about 10:30pm from euthanasia. 
“The vets drained [the bleed] once but when it came back 24hrs later we decided that Gary needed to go out peacefully and pain free instead of being conscious while he couldn't breathe. 
“I've been filming for the the last few days while travelling over 1500km between three different vets. 
“We thought it was just bloat at first - but it's very hard to diagnose a goat who doesn't give a f--k. 
“We'll all miss you Gary. Rest In Peace, mate.” 
F ans have been paying tribute to Gary on social media, with one declaring him “the greatest goat that ever lived”. 
Taylor Cook wrote: “You gave Gary a life most goats will never come close to seeing. A great fun-filled adventure with plenty of memories ... He lived a great life.” 
“RIP Gary!” wrote Courtney Tranter. “You brought much happiness to me during my darkest hours. Thanks Jimbo for sharing your adventures together, it was a damn good six years.” 
David Kilgariff posted: “You are a legend!! Without question the world's most lovable goat who brought much happiness to millions of people.” 
“Thanks for all the laughs Gary and Jimbo,” wrote another. “Thinking of you and so gutted to see this!” Related Topics