Back and forth between Mayor Rhodes and Facebook Live filmer continues 
By Megan Tomasic Order Reprint of this Story October 29, 2017 2:37 PM 
The man who filmed the Facebook Live video that showed a crowd getting shot at on Ocean Boulevard in June has received criticism from Myrtle Beach Mayor John Rhodes. 
At a mayoral debate on Oct. 26 Rhodes said, “That gentleman that took the film was a fireman that was here on a fireman’s convention. He was a sworn officer that was supposed to respond to people in trouble and injured. He was so busy taking the film he never did what his job called for him to do, and that was to respond to injured people on the boulevard.” 
In response, Bubba Hinson released another Facebook Live video Sunday afternoon stating: 
“I’d like to take a moment to break down his comments. For the first part he is correct. I am a volunteer firefighter that was in Myrtle Beach for the fire convention, as well as my vacation. I’ve been going to Myrtle Beach for years, even before I joined the fire service. … Again, I would like to note, that I was on vacation, I had no medical supplies, no gear and no jurisdiction. If I was on the street when the incident occurred and not on the eighth floor of a hotel, I would have tried to render aid if I believed it was safe as a Good Samaritan. Instead, I stayed on the eighth floor in a safe environment, and instructed someone to call 911, in which that person did.” 
Hinson continued, stating that Rhodes identified him as a sworn officer, but because he does not have “arrest powers” that he is not a sworn officer. 
The video reached millions of viewers on social media and put Myrtle Beach in the national spotlight. 
The Sun News reached out to Rhodes regarding Hinson’s statement, to which he responded, “I’m glad they had no one in Las Vegas or in New York City during 9/11 that was more interested in taking film than in rescuing lives.” 
Hinson concluded his video by stating: “So I would like to ask Mayor Rhodes something. Where were you when this incident took place? I think someone owes someone an apology.” 
Megan Tomasic: 843-626-0343 , @MeganTomasic Never miss a local story. Sign up today for unlimited digital access to our website, apps, the digital newspaper and more.