Bangladesh demands formal apology by Pakistan over Zia video post in Facebook Senior Correspondent, bdnews24.com Published: 2017-10-31 20:46:20.0 BdST Updated: 2017-10-31 20:46:20.0 BdST Dhaka wants a "formal note of apology" from Islamabad over a social media post by the High Commission of Pakistan, which it has described as "ill-motivated and misleading." Related Stories 
Govt warns Pakistan not to distort history 
It has called for immediate removal of a video posted on the Facebook page maintained by the Pakistan mission in Dhaka. 
The 13:45-minute video had initially been posted on the Facebook Page -- Pakistan Affairs. In the video, it is claimed that ‘Ziaur Rahman, not Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, announced Bangladesh’s independence’. 
Several Bangladesh media outlets have reported that the High Commission of Pakistan in Dhaka shared the video on its Facebook page. It was removed from the high commission’s Facebook page after it sparked controversy. 
High Commissioner Rafiuzzaman Siddiqui was summoned by the foreign ministry on Tuesday, when it lodged a strong protest and warned against the distortion of history. 
The envoy answered the summons at a meeting with Foreign Secretary (Bilateral and Consular) Kamrul Ahsan on Tuesday. 
“We told him that if this continues it will harm the relations between the two countries. History is history. One cannot divert it by spreading propaganda,” he said. 
The Pakistan envoy apologised, saying the incident had been ‘unintentional’ and that they had not ‘understood the situation’, according to Secretary Ahsan. 
The foreign ministry later said in a statement that the envoy was warned over “repeated breach of diplomatic norms by Pakistan only stands to harm bilateral relations between the two countries". 
“The government deeply regrets that notwithstanding Bangladesh’s repeated overtures the malicious campaign by Pakistan and its various agencies against Bangladesh has not come to a halt," it said. 
High Commissioner Siddiqui was told that for the sake of adherence to established diplomatic norms; in future, the High Commission of Pakistan in Dhaka as well as the Pakistan authorities would act responsibly and refrain from any such uncalled for and provocative activities against the interest of Bangladesh. 
The Pakistan envoy was also told to bring the matter to the notice of the appropriate authorities in Pakistan and that Bangladesh seeks a 'formal note of apology' over the video posted on the social media. 
The diplomatic note, handed over to Siddiqui, said the message conveyed in the video that it is not the Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman who declared the independence of Bangladesh is a “blatant lie and sheer fabrication of historical facts”. 
The video also also claims that Bangabandhu had not wanted Bangladesh’s independence; he had sought autonomy for the Bengali-majority East Pakistan. 
“The Government of Bangladesh strongly rebuts such baseless and unfounded narratives,” reads the note. 
Secretary Ahsan described it as an “instance of purposeful abuse of social media by the High Commission of Pakistan in Dhaka”. 
“Such breach of diplomatic norms and practices and deliberate propaganda to spread shameless lies shall not only jeopardize bilateral relations, but would render a great disservice to succeeding generations of historians, intelligentsia as well as common people who champion the cause of truth and justice.” 
“Nothing can be farthest from the truth than claiming that the architect of independent Bangladesh and Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman did not want Bangladesh’s independence or that Bangladesh’s independence was declared by anybody other than the Great Leader himself,” according to the diplomatic note. 
“Any such misadventure from Pakistan or for that matter any quarters in Pakistan would threaten normal ties.” 
The high commissioner was reminded that Bangabandhu’s historic speech delivered on March 7 of 1971 when the stated “the struggle this time is the struggle for our freedom, the struggle this time is the struggle for our independence” bears testimony to his intention for Bangladesh’s independence. 
He was rold that Bangladesh’s long freedom movement culminated in the declaration of independence by Bangabandhu on March 26 and Pakistan’s subsequent surrender at Dhaka on Dec 16.l that year. 
Bangabandhu’s declaration of independence and his call to take up arms against a brutal military were the milestone events in Bangladesh’s liberation struggle that motivated hundreds of thousands of Bangladesh’s Freedom Fighters to fight to liberate Bangladesh. 
“Even some historians in Pakistan in their works have highlighted Bangabandhu’s singular and monumental role in Bangladesh’s war of liberation.” 
The government also informed the Pakistani high commissioner that “such utterly undiplomatic practices hurt the sentiments of the people of Bangladesh particularly the families of the three million martyrs and around half million violated women”. Advertisement