Bay community Facebook page founder steps down 6 Nov, 2017 10:00am 2 minutes to read Silke Whittaker, who started the Facebook page, You made my day - Hawke's Bay, has decided to move on. Photo/Supplied By: Ruby Harfield,   The woman who started a positive Hawke's Bay Facebook group two years ago has decided to move on. Silke Whittaker created You made my day - Hawke's Bay in July 2015, so members of the district could help others in their community. Over the last two years the page has grown to include more than 8700 members and many positive transactions have taken place over that time. Mrs Whittaker said she started the group to "create more connection in the wider community, foster kindness and understanding for each other, help each other, spread positivity, joy and happiness".   She had initially thought only a few hundred would be interested in the concept but it had become so popular that she no longer had the time to run the page to the extent it needed due to family commitments and starting up a yoga studio, she said. "I have put a lot of effort, time and heart in this project. "There have been literally thousands of exchanges of free items to new owners, there have been countless families helped with grocery ... there have been services donated ... there has been accommodation donated ... you name it probably has been given. "There are so many people out there with good hearts and willing to share and help. "You made my day has provided a platform to do this easily." Four new volunteers will now be running the group - Juliet Campbell, Michaela Eileen, Deborah Grace and Clair Rochester. Running the group has not been without its challenges, Mrs Whittaker said. "Being an online group I found in the end I spent most of my time monitoring and dealing with things like scammers and complaints, approving posts and new members, which all takes a lot of time to ensure that people who gift are safe and to ban the people who didn't play by the rules." However, most of the transactions have been positive and successful, Mrs Whittaker said. "Our community rocks and I am so glad I stepped out of my introvert's snail-shell for a while to create and grow You made my day."