Media Images Beverly Hills Dentist Dr. Rodney Raanan Gets Rave Reviews on Facebook, Yelp and Google Be it Facebook, Yelp, or Google the Prominent Beverly Hills Dentist has received a lot of rave reviews for his services.   It was Mother Theresa that said, "Let us always meet each other with a smile, for the smile is the beginning of love". Prominent Beverly Hills Dentist Dr. Rodney Raanan shares this same sentiment and is making it possible by helping all of his clients get the kind of smile they would like to share. It is no wonder he is getting a lot of love on social media. Be it Facebook, Yelp, or Google the Prominent Beverly Hills Dentist has received a lot of rave reviews for his services. 
"I have never gotten such a thorough exam in my life. Dr. Raanan knows his stuff. He spends the time to explain every step and makes sure that you're comfortable throughout the whole process. He actually listened to everything I said and I couldn't be happier with my end results. I finally can smile again", says a recent review on Yelp 
Having attained a Bachelor of Science degree in Anthropology at the University of California – Los Angeles (UCLA), Dr. Rodney Raanan decided to start a career in dentistry. Hence, he obtained a Doctor of Dental Surgery degree with Honors from the University of Southern California (USC) School of Dentistry. He later went on to get a Masters of Medical Sciences in Oral Biology. He has extensive training and experience in the use of CAD/CAM for dental restorations like ceramic crowns and fixed dental prostheses (FDPs), Aesthetic Dentistry, Implant Dentistry, Full Mouth Reconstruction or Rehabilitation, TMJ Disorders, correction of bite problems, and can coordinate multidisciplinary treatments with other highly skilled dental and medical specialists. Besides his excellent resume and years of experience on the job, Dr Ranaan is blessed with a kind heart and has traveled to remote areas to treat children with limited access to modern dental clinics. His passion for excellence, friendliness, patience and a quick eye for detail endear him to his patients and stands him out as an eminent dental practitioner in California. No doctor understands better how a patient's aesthetic dentistry influences their pride and sense of hope as much as Dr Raanan. 
"I can Honestly say I have Never been treated with such care and attention to Details regarding my teeth. For a while now, I have had Major tmj issues. No one has addressed until Dr Ranaan. He Listened, Thoroughly examined my teeth THEN determined which treatment(s) will be Best For Me. Don't let the zip code scare you, he is Worth every dollar. Having all Your teeth is WORTH it!", another review on Yelp. 
Alongside his partner Dr Rifkin, Dr Ranaan has been able to build an elite team that is committed to meeting the needs and exceeding the standards for quality dental care. Their Beverly Hills state of the art facility provides nothing short of comfort and the very best technology to ensure a world-class service. The beautiful penthouse office provides a stunning view of the hollywood hills and patients are even more likely to meet their favourite celebs at the office. 
"Aside from the fact that the beautiful penthouse office overlooks Beverly Hills and all the famous Hollywood celebrities are treated in this office, I was genuinely happy with the energy, atmosphere, knowledge, & passion of the staff. The attention to detail and professionalism that was received along with the information obtained about my dental healthcare was beyond my expectation. Almost a guarantee you will bump into celebs here! I love Mary", says an excited patient who bumped into Mary J Blige while at the clinic. The clinic offers a wide range of aesthetic dental services including full mouth reconstruction, implant dentistry, aesthetic bonding, teeth whitening, TMJ disorder and many more. Whatever the issue, patients visiting their Beverly Hills facility are sure to leave with the best smile ever. 
Contact: Dr. Rodney Raanan, DDS MMSc 
414 N Camden Dr #1280, Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (310) 205-5300