A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Bill Murray starring in baseball show for Facebook Ted Berg , USA TODAY Sports Published 9:08 a.m. ET Nov. 13, 2017 759 Shares It's true! And it sounds so very, very awesome. Bill Murray and his brother, Brian Doyle-Murray, traveled the country visiting small-town baseball venues and communities for the show, Bill Murray and Brian Doyle-Murray's Extra Innings . A huge Cubs fan and a minor-league owner who currently has a classical music album near the top of the Billboard charts , the Ghostbusters star even wrote and performed the theme song for the show alongside Doyle-Murray and longtime David Letterman bandleader Paul Shaffer. The show will debut on Facebook Watch on Monday, Nov. 20. Murray, obviously, is a national treasure. He seems like he might very well spend his summers touring baseball sites, greeting fans, heckling players and filling in for grounds crew members whether or not there's a show involved, but we should be thankful that he let someone film it all. True story: One time this author sat next to Bill Murray at a Cubs-Mets game at Shea Stadium early in the 1998 season. My friends and I mostly left Murray alone to enjoy the baseball, but he did happily abide my autograph request on behalf of a friend who had memorized every single line of What About Bob? But one heckler a few rows ahead of us was far less polite to Bill Murray, and kept yelling at him and calling attention to him, which generally seemed uncool. Murray gave him the subtle middle finger - pretending to scratch his face as he flipped the guy off - but the guy called attention to that, too. Mostly, though, this particular heckler spent the entire night berating one particular Cubs hitter. With a booming voice and from a seat close to the visitors' on-deck circle, the heckler repeated called Sammy Sosa, "Sammy So-So." Sosa hit his third home run of the young season that night and would go on to hit 63 more, and I have always wanted to ask Bill Murray if he also believes it was that particular heckler that made the difference between Sammy Sosa's truly so-so 1997 and his historic 1998 campaign. Get at me, Bill Murray. Read or Share this story: http://ftw.usatoday.com/2017/11/bill-murray-facebook-show-baseball-minor-leagues-mlb-brian-doyle-murray-extra-innings Most Popular