Sign Up for Breaking News Alerts Please fill out this field with valid email address. Sign Up CAA, Publicist Staci Wolfe Part Ways With Kevin Spacey 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 7 hours ago Actress Paz de la Huerta Alleges Harvey Weinstein Raped Her Twice, NYPD Investigating 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 8 hours ago Live Nation Posts Best-Ever Third Quarter 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 10 hours ago CBS Q3 Revenue Rises 3% on Affiliate Fees, Showtime Boxing 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 12 hours ago 'The Late Show' Drops Jeremy Piven Interview Amid Sexual Harassment Allegations 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 13 hours ago Veteran Lit Agent David Boxerbaum Joins Verve Talent and Literary Agency 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 13 hours ago To Combat New Media Players, TV Studios Sign Key Producers to Lucrative Overall Deals 
Brett Ratner filed a defamation suit in Hawaii federal court against Melanie Kohler on Wednesday, who wrote a Facebook post referring to him as a “rapist.” The suit comes on the heels of a Los Angeles Times report that details the allegations from six women that Ratner acted inappropriately, either sexually harassing or assaulting them. […] 15 hours ago