Sign Up for Breaking News Alerts Please fill out this field with valid email address. Sign Up Is the White House Haunted? Jenna and Barbara Bush Share Their Ghost Story 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 3 hours ago Facebook: Russia-Linked Content Reached 126 Million People in Two-Year Period 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 20 hours ago C-SPAN Will Use Facebook to Live-Stream Hearings on Russia Political Meddling 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 24 hours ago Paul Manafort, Rick Gates Plead Not Guilty to Charges Stemming From Russia Probe 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 1 day ago Former Trump Campaign Advisor Pleads Guilty to Lying to FBI About Russia Contacts 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 1 day ago Hillary Clinton Skewers Fox News, Calls on GOP to Condemn Roy Moore at HRC Dinner 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 2 days ago Trump, Michael Moore Start Twitter War Over Broadway Show 
Facebook will be one of the platforms where you’ll be able to hear the company’s top lawyer get questioned by U.S. lawmakers about the social giant’s role with respect to Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. C-SPAN is carrying this week’s three congressional committee hearings, with testimony from Facebook, Twitter and Google execs, on […] 3 days ago