Data Entry capture facebook user names from video and post likes 
I need a list of all people who likes videos and posts of 3 facebook company pages (copy link to facebook user profile in a excel sheet). Filter excel for duplicates. total will be a couple of thousand user profile names Offer to work on this job now! Bidding closes in 6 days Open - 6 days left Your bid for this job USD Set your budget and timeframe Outline your proposal Get paid for your work It's free to sign up and bid on jobs 27 freelancers are bidding on average $22 for this job $24 USD in 1 day (289 Reviews) deepabittu Hello Sir, I have 5+ member team i am done this type job last time with good result so plz give me one chance so i am done this job with good [url removed, login to view] Regards Relevant Skills and Experience Hello Sir, I have 5+ More $15 USD in 1 day (246 Reviews) it is pretty simple task, well i can can do it with FB API (token access) and i already have the script written in python...pm please more discuss Relevant Skills and Experience check my recent scraping works Propose More $30 USD in 2 days (164 Reviews) MdAlamgirHoosain Dear Sir I have gone through your job posting & became very interested to do this task.I have 4 years experience and have a skilled [url removed, login to view] award me of your [url removed, login to view] give me a [url removed, login to view] Relevant Skills a More $25 USD in 1 day (88 Reviews) hi, can you send me company pages url in PM? Relevant Skills and Experience i Proposed Milestones $10 USD - p i $10 USD in 1 day (81 Reviews) $16 USD in 1 day (10 Reviews) Hello, I'm interested,I'll complete the project a little budget and your full satisfaction. lets give me message so that we can discuss about the project details.. I'm waiting for your response.... Relevant Skills a More $35 USD in 1 day (5 Reviews) Hello Client, I am very interested in a job i can start the work now please give me a chance. Thank you Relevant Skills and Experience Data Entry, Data Proc More $10 USD in 1 day (52 Reviews) Consider it done. Just give me the names or links of companies and I will start working on it right away. Relevant Skills and Experience Experienced in data extraction and excel. Proposed Milestones $10 USD - Upon co More $10 USD in 1 day (4 Reviews) $25 USD in 1 day (2 Reviews) gurjinder1985 Hello sir/madam I am doing data entry jobs on word and excel from last 10 years. I am very good in these works. Relevant Skills and Experience I am a postgraduate and i have worked on various projects thank you Propo More $30 USD in 1 day (5 Reviews) ifeoluwa95samuel I am a writer and data entry personnel. I have gone through the project description and i can confidently assure you that i am the best fit for this job. Relevant Skills and Experience Copy typing and data entry Pro More $10 USD in 1 day (3 Reviews)