SACKED OVER FB PIC Care home manager fired from £45k-a-year job for posting Facebook snap in compo bid 
Rachel Burns' 21-year career at Park Hall residential home for elderly and vulnerable adults, in Reigate, Surrey, came to a crashing halt in 2015 By Guy Birchall 6th November 2017, 10:59 pm Updated: 6th November 2017, 10:59 pm Comments A CARE home worker who lost her job over a Facebook photo is set to find out how much compensation she will get from the council for giving her the sack. 
Rachel Burns' 21-year career at Park Hall residential home for elderly and vulnerable adults, in Reigate, Surrey, came to a crashing halt in 2015. SWNS:South West News Service Ms Burns, pictured with her husband Gary, is "devastated" after losing the job she loved 
She posted snaps and a video of people in her care dancing and singing songs at the get-together last year. 
However two months later Surrey County Council booted Ms Burns out of her job saying her behaviour was against the care home's social media policy. 
After the uploading photos of the party at Park Hall care home in Reigate, Surrey, Ms Burns posted the comment "you all made it a fab night, proud to be your manager". 
Despite the well-meaning Facebook posts, Ms Burn was called into a disciplinary meeting and offered a demotion with a 50 per cent pay cut or dismissal. SWNS:South West News Service One of the posts showed a resident enjoying themselves, while Ms Burns also thanked those who attended for a great night 
Two days later a letter arrived informing her she was suspended due to a disciplinary investigation for alleged "inappropriate use of social media". 
Ms Burns, who was a care home manager for 21 years, was also slammed for adding a resident's relative as a friend on Facebook. 
She claims she only did this to look at a group called Save Park Hall after the council tried to shut the building down. 
But in August she found out a tribunal had upheld her claim for unfair dismissal. 
A judge decided Surrey County Council's decision to demote Rachel was within the band of reasonable responses, given she admitted the allegations. 
But she concluded that the two working day time scale to decide between being demoted or dismissed wasn't long enough. 
An ecstatic Rachel told the BBC : "Justice has prevailed! 
"It's amazing that if you believe in something and you know your worth you just keep going. 
"You keep going, and going and going." 
She will find out on November 13 how much compensation she will get, but she fears it won't be as much as she hoped since her record still shows a dismissal for serious misconduct. SWNS:South West News Service Ms Burns, 50, says she feels 'violated' after forced into a corner when for her 'breach of social media policy' 
The 50-year-old said last year : "I was remorseful and didn't mean anything malicious. 
"I was trying to show the home in a positive light. 
"I really do feel violated. 
"I'm not saying I'm perfect but I have always abided by the rules. 
"I'm friends with other relatives on Facebook and they didn't look at that. 
"I'm not perfect but I put my heart and soul into that place. 
"I was absolutely devastated. 
"They have destroyed my career. No care home is going to take me now with that hanging over me." 
Ms Burns says that losing her job has been devastating, especially as her husband, Gary, is awaiting treatment for a persistent brain tumour. 
In recent years she has lost her father, mother, brother and now her dream job. 
Ms Burns added: "We have never been in such a financial state. They have completely destroyed us. 
"We don't know if we are going to be able to keep the roof over our heads. 
"The stress they have put Gary under while he has got a brain tumour could cause him to have a stroke. 
"I do miss Park Hall, I loved my job. 
"I was always very proud of working for the council." 
I was remorseful and didn't mean anything malicious. I was trying to show the home in a positive light. I really do feel violated. Former Park Hall care home manager Rachel Burns 
Since Rachel left Park Hall, several family members of residents have come forward in her defence. 
Claire and Graham Pooley are relatives of the two residents pictured in Rachel's Facebook post. 
The pair say Surrey County Council did not contact them about the matter until earlier this week. 
Graham said: "If this is the way they have treated Rachel then based on this we are seriously concerned about the welfare of our relative and the other residents. 
"Friday night music evenings were a highlight of his week, and he always wanted to take full part in the events, including having as many videos and photos taken of him participating in the singing. SWNS:South West News Service The former care boss is having a rough time as her husband awaits treatment for a brain tumour 
He added: "I can say with certainty that he would have no concerns if a photograph of him participating in the music evening was posted on Facebook. He loves pictures of himself and always wants to share them. 
"No embarrassment to him or his family, or any other problems, have been created by this Facebook posting, and we and the rest of the family have absolutely no concerns that this has taken place." 
At the time of her dismissal Surrey County Council won't comment on the disciplinary breach, but said: "Alternative employment was offered but it is up to the staff member to decide whether to accept or go elsewhere. 
"We wish Ms Burns all the best for the future." 
A Facebook page in support called Help Rachel Get Her Job Back has been set up as a show of support for the former care home boss. 
The Sun Online has contacted Surrey County Council for a comment on the latest development. MOST READ IN NEWS Teen disembowelled in attack ran into cafe with his intestines spilling out MY LIFE ON MARS Genius Russian kid says he was born on Mars... and his parents believe him devil dad Social services visited adopted tot 13 times before dad beat her to death STALKING AGONY Mum furious after ex who stalked her for 21yrs is given 'soft' jail sentence BITTER TWIST First snow hits as UK braces for icy winds and temperatures of -10C today 'HER FACE WILL MAKE PEOPLE SMILE' 'Call The Midwife' calendar baby dies days after shoot FREAKY FOOD Nine ingredients that you've been eating without realising including BEAVER BUM 'SHE'S A BAD B***H' Rants of Texas church shooter who preached atheism before killing 26 DATE FROM HELL Russian 'Hannibal Lecter' bit off nurse's ears, nose and fingertips 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.