MORE The mother of Chad Carr, who died as a 5-year-old in 2015 due to an inoperable brain tumor, is shutting down haters of Michigan quarterback John O'Korn.
Tammi Carr posted Sunday on Facebook under the " ChadTough Foundation " page, blasting the "nasty hateful vitriol" for O'Korn, especially after Saturday's latest loss in the rivalry against Ohio State .
O’Korn overthrew wide open receivers early on, then misread coverage in the fourth quarter and threw a gift interception to Ohio State safety Jordan Fuller.
Twitter has been relentless.
Michigan QB John O'Korn throws an interception on a throw to.... nobody. pic.twitter.com/x7JbHYRWsv
— Evan Petzold (@EvanPetzold) November 25, 2017 If I could some up John O’Korn’s day in one gif....
It’s this: pic.twitter.com/tFzSJED7Qm
— MSZ Wolverines (@MSZ_Wolverines) November 25, 2017 But Carr wants us to be better than that.
"... you may not be thrilled with the outcome ... but to see the hatred that is being thrown around at this young man ... it is making me sick," she wrote.
Also read:
Chad Carr's final gift: Hope for other kids with deadly cancer
In addition, she shared a letter O'Korn sent to the Carr family after Chad's passing two years ago.
"Read it and think about this before you spew some more nasty hateful vitriol. This is a Michigan man and that's bigger than football," she wrote.
The letter reads:
I've been wanting to write you for some time now. I've had a hard time formulating all of my thoughts, but more than anything I just want to thank you. Thank you for walking with so much strength and courage through a season I couldn't ever imagine going through myself. The faith you and your family have shown over the past few months has been such an encouragement to me as a believer and has touched more lives than you'll ever know. Just from watching from afar, I hope that one day I can be the type of parent that you and Jason are. I'm so encouraged by Chad's life - your "oopsie" child - it was the furthest thing from an accident. He lived such a full life and continues to inspire people and change the world every day. For that, I am so grateful.
John O'Korn
O’Korn had two touchdown passes and six interceptions in nine games this season. He was visibly emotional after Saturday's 31-21 loss to Ohio State.
“I can’t imagine a worse feeling right now.”
CLOSE John O'Korn is emotional after the 31-20 loss to Ohio State on Saturday, Nov. 25, 2017 at Michigan Stadium. George Sipple, Detroit Free Press
Meantime, the Carr family continues to find ways to survive Chad's death — and find joy again. Read more here.
Download our Wolverines Xtra app for free on Apple and Android devices!