. But it wasn’t until more recent months that the investigation heated up.
Hansen was first interviewed by IPRA investigators in April 2016, but despite knowing of the nature of the investigation, he continued to post what COPA called “distasteful, abusive, racist, xenophobic, Islamophobic and discriminatory” comments and posts. 
Last August, a member of the public complained about the bumper sticker on Hansen’s vehicle — showing a truck running over protesters — while it was parked outside the South Loop police station where he worked. Another sticker on his windshield depicted a hand pointing a gun in a shooting position. Inches away, Hansen advertised his membership in the Fraternal Order of Police union. 
COPA sustained 62 allegations against Hansen — an unusually high number — for violating myriad department rules and regulations, including bringing discredit to the department and making public statements that can jeopardize public confidence in the department. 
COPA also cited a Police Department general order that prohibits officers from using social media to post content that is “disparaging to a person or group based on race, religion, sexual orientation, or any other protected class.” 
The 62 allegations mostly involved Facebook comments he posted between June 2015 and August 2017. 
The postings included a cartoon of a boy urinating on the word “Allah,” a reference to African-American children as “wild African kids” and a warning to activists from the Black Lives Matter movement that they’re “f dead” if they come near his family, according to the COPA report. 
“Alarmingly, PO Hansen also openly advocated for ‘civil war,’ encouraged people to settle their differences through violence, and even publicly supported the ‘code of silence,’” the COPA report said. 
He ended another posting by saying, “In the name of the Jesse, the Al, and the Holy Pfleger, Amen” — apparent references to civil rights activists the Revs. Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton and activist priest the Rev. Michael Pfleger. 
In August, Hansen commented on a video on Facebook of men of apparent Middle Eastern descent falling off a truck. 
“Ha ha I hope those that fell off a (sic) paralyzed,” COPA quoted him as responding. 
The examples go on for about 20 pages in the COPA report. 
It turns out that Hansen had come to the attention of the U.S. Department of Justice during its investigation of the Police Department, according to COPA, after some of his Facebook comments drew media interest in 2015. 
The scathing 164-page report issued by the Justice Department found that Chicago officers routinely violated the constitutional rights of citizens. 
Without naming Hansen, the Justice Department report noted how an officer called for “a race war” on social media. COPA said the Justice Department was referring to Hansen. 
“CPD will not be able to convince residents in these (marginalized) neighborhoods that it cares, no matter how earnestly it launches community policing initiatives, if it does not take a stronger, more effective stance against unnecessarily demeaning and divisive officer conduct,” the Justice Department report said. 
COPA reached a similar conclusion in its report — and even raised concerns about the impact of Hansen’s remarks within the department itself. 
“PO Hansen’s speech has the potential to create problems in maintaining the discipline and harmony in the department,” COPA wrote. “Department members are as diverse as Chicago itself and include many of the same groups PO Hansen openly disparages including black people and Muslims.” 
In interviews with investigators from Chicago’s police watchdog agency, Hansen maintained that the Facebook posts were “merely a reflection of his sense of humor,” according to the COPA report. 
But COPA said it did not find Hansen credible on that point and concluded that he wasn’t joking “in many instances.” 
“The nature and frequency of PO Hansen’s Facebook posts and comments suggest that he was expressing his genuine views,” the report said. 
COPA said Hansen tried to “clarify” during his interviews that his vitriol toward Muslims was limited toward “radical Islam,” another claim investigators did not find credible. With the exception of one post, the investigators noted that Hansen “did not label his Islamophobic posts as specific to ‘radical Islam’” and that he posted “countless horrific images and posts espousing the belief that all Muslims should die.” 
Hansen repeatedly defended his comments as protected speech under the First Amendment. 
But COPA, citing legal precedent, said police officers are subject to greater First Amendment restraints than most other citizens. 
Edwin Yohnka, a spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois, said government employees, including police officers, have the right to speak out on issues of public interest, especially when they’re doing so on their private time. But he said certain government employees critical to instilling public trust, such as police officers and teachers, can be disciplined for making statements — even while away from work — if their language undermines that trust. 
“We think that agencies ought to be very cautious before they discipline someone in that circumstance … and it ought to be really extraordinary and demonstrable,” Yohnka said. 
Chicago Tribune’s Jennifer Smith Richards contributed.