Chinese businessman posts ad on Facebook looking for Chilean wife for his son Max Pixel enviar 
Este artículo fue traducido del español . Para leer la versión original , haz click aquí . 
A Chinese citizen who lives since February 2017 in Puerto Varas , a town in the Los Lagos region, in the south of Chile, started a curious quest on Facebook. 
Keli Wu posted an ad on the Avisos Puerto Varas group in which he expresses he hopes to find a Chilean young woman – between the ages of 18 and 20 – to arrange a marriage for his 21-year-old son, Jay. 
Currently, arranged marriages are not that unusual in China . In 2015, the Chinese program at the University of Pennsylvania travelled to Shanghai for its annual two-month immersion trip. 
It was in this city where both students and professors visited a “marriage market”, a legitimate event that unfolded every weekend at the People’s Park and where parents hoped to find their children’s life-long significant other. 
Mr Wu detailed on the ad that after living for 4 years in the United States with Jay, his wife, Yang, and his currently Canada-based daughter, Lisa, his son decided to stay on US soil and study History, but he came to Chile for the first time between May and August this year, time which he “thoroughly enjoyed in Puerto Varas”. 
In this way, Wu wishes Jay finds his spouse in the very same city . 
The couple moved from China to the south of Chile last February looking to further their business’ horizons, and it is a place in which both of them have achieved to live “a wonderful life”. Requirements 
Mr Wu enfatically clarified that the lucky lady who lands his son “does not need to speak English” since his son “will learn Spanish with her”. “Language is not a problem for youngsters to fall in love” , the man wrote. 
Moreover, Jay’s father hopes his eventual daughter-in-law works full time for them at the family company . 
Because of that, they are willing to pay her a salary of up to 800 thousand pesos a month , roughly 1,260 dollars . Nonetheless, she must have completed Secondary School or, at least, be about to do so. 
In return, young ladies will get a 1,80 metre tall (6 feet) husband, who also happens to be kind and amusing. However, those interested must get in contact via either a Facebook message or an email. 
The businessman added that “arrangements can be made to visit her family or we can invite them over to visit us in our smallholding” . 
The ladies who happen to ingratiate themselves with Jay’s parents will receive a Chinese silk scarf as a present for their willingness. 
Nevertheless, the post did not show any sort of photographic or recorded material that depicted Jay Wu, but he will make a second visit to city on 10 December, where he might possibly be introduced to his -eventual- wife. 
After asking around town, BioBioChile contacted Mr Wu, who declined to make any comments on the matter due to family reasons. 
You can read Mr Wu’s original Spanish post below . Tendencias Ahora tendencia Nuestros comentarios son un espacio de conversación y debate. Recibimos con gusto críticas constructivas, pero nos reservamos el derecho a eliminar comentarios o bloquear usuarios agresivos , ofensivos o abusivos . Ver los comentarios ( 0 )