China Social Media Giant Tencent is Now More Valuable Than Facebook Move over, Facebook. There’s some serious competition in the social media world. China’s Internet conglomerate Tencent Holdings overtook Facebook by size on Tuesday, with a market capitalization of $534.5 billion, compared to Facebook’s $519 billion, according to reports . Tencent’s share price has surged following strong third quarter earnings, reported last week, with profits increasing nearly 70% in the quarter. What is Tencent anyway? Tencent is a tech conglomerate offering Internet services, an online advertising platform, and mobile games, among other things. It’s perhaps best-known, however, for its WeChat messaging service, which has close to 1 billion users who send about 38 billion messages each day, according to Reuters. Tencent was founded by entrepreneur Ma Huateng in 1998. It has invested in numerous U.S. startups, including Snap and Tesla. Ma has an estimated net worth of $42 billion, according to CNN . Earlier this month, Tencent caused a stir when it snapped up 12% of Snap after the U.S.-based messaging app company reported less than stellar earnings. Tencent is now the fifth-largest publicly traded company in the world, according to Reuters. It ranks behind Apple, whose market capitalization of $873 billion makes it the most valuable company in the world, as well as Google parent company Alphabet, Microsoft, and Amazon. Largest publicly traded companies by market cap. Sources: Yahoo Finance and CNBC, as of 11/22/17 What is a market capitalization? A market capitalization, or market cap, is the total dollar value of a company’s shares. It’s often used to evaluate a company’s overall size. Market cap is determined using a simple calculation: You multiply the company’s share price by the number of shares available for sale. In this case, Tencent’s share price was about 440 Hong Kong dollars. It has about 1 billion shares outstanding. That gives Tencent a market cap of roughly 4.17 trillion Hong Kong dollars, or $534.5 billion, according to CNBC . It’s the first Chinese company to reach the $500 billion market cap mark, beating out rival Alibaba, the Chinese eCommerce company. Top Takeaways: China’s Tencent Holdings now has a bigger market cap than Facebook. Tencent was founded in 1998 by entrepreneur Ma Huateng. Tencent has invested in numerous U.S. startups, including Snap and Tesla. Jeremy Quittner Jeremy Quittner is the financial writer for Stash. Disclaimers This material has been distributed for informational and educational purposes only, represents an assessment of the market environment as of the date of publication, is subject to change without notice, and is not intended as investment, legal, accounting, or tax advice or opinion. Stash assumes no obligation to provide notifications of changes in any factors that could affect the information provided. This information should not be relied upon by the reader as research or investment advice regarding any issuer or security in particular. The strategies discussed are strictly for illustrative and educational purposes and should not be construed as a recommendation to purchase or sell, or an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. There is no guarantee that any strategies discussed will be effective. Furthermore, the information presented does not take into consideration commissions, tax implications, or other transactional costs, which may significantly affect the economic consequences of a given strategy or investment decision. This information is not intended as a recommendation to invest in any particular asset class or strategy or as a promise of future performance. There is no guarantee that any investment strategy will work under all market conditions or is suitable for all investors. Each investor should evaluate their ability to invest long term, especially during periods of downturn in the market. Investors should not substitute these materials for professional services, and should seek advice from an independent advisor before acting on any information presented. Past performance does not guarantee future results. There is a potential for loss as well as gain in investing. Stash does not represent in any manner that the circumstances described herein will result in any particular outcome. While the data and analysis Stash uses from third party sources is believed to be reliable, Stash does not guarantee the accuracy of such information. Nothing in this article should be considered as a solicitation or offer, or recommendation, to buy or sell any particular security or investment product or to engage in any investment strategy. No part of this material may be reproduced in any form, or referred to in any other publication, without express written permission. Stash does not provide personalized financial planning to investors, such as estate, tax, or retirement planning. Investment advisory services are only provided to investors who become Stash Clients pursuant to a written Advisory Agreement. For more information please visit www.stashinvest.com/disclosure