The letter, addressed to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg, cited several examples of how Russian operatives used fake accounts to foster social division and stir up animus. | Eric Risberg/AP Civil rights groups slam Facebook More than a dozen civil rights organizations decry 'hateful content' on the platform. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter 
A group of 19 prominent civil rights groups representing African-American, Muslim, Latino, Asian, and LGBTQ communities, among others, sent a letter to Facebook yesterday, expressing “deep concern” over “hateful content on your platform used to divide the country,” and calling for the social media giant to do more to combat it—including release the now infamous Russian bought ads that attempted to use divisive social messages to influence the presidential election. 
“It is necessary for Facebook to take critical steps to address the bigotry and discrimination generated on your platform,” the letter said. Signing groups included the Human Rights Campaign, Muslim Advocates, League of United Latin American Citizens, Muslim Advocates, NAACP, and the Southern Poverty Law Center. Story Continued Below 
The letter, addressed to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg, cited several examples of how Russian operatives used fake accounts to foster social division and stir up animus, especially around topics like immigration and Black Lives Matter—but complained that it was limited to citing examples in the news, because the groups “do not have access to all the divisive content targeting communities we represent.” The most reliable politics newsletter. Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning — in your inbox. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time. 
On Monday, CNN reported that Facebook will tell lawmakers that, during the election season, some 126 million Americans might have seen content on the platform created by a group linked to the Russian government. 
“We were alarmed to see your platform being abused to promote bigotry, and especially disappointed that it has taken media exposure and congressional oversight to give a degree of transparency into your practices,” the letter said. “It is important to keep in mind that pervasive bigotry has long existed on your platform, and the Russian operatives simply exploited that hateful content and activity already present. We are concerned about how a platform like Facebook’s operate without appropriate safeguards that take into account how it could be manipulated to further sow divisions in our society.” 
“Over the years, many of us have raised concerns about how your platform may have a negative impact on our communities, with disappointing results,” the letter said. “Though in the past you have displayed a willingness to listen to our concerns, we have yet to see meaningful change.” 
Erin Egan, Facebook’s vice president of US public policy, responded to the letter in a statement: “We are grateful for the feedback in this letter,” she said. “There is no place for hate on Facebook. This is an ongoing process and we are committed to listening and learning from communities that face attacks based on factors such as race, religion, ethnicity, gender, and sexual orientation. We are taking action in the form of investments in security and making improvements to our policies and tools.” 
The effort to create the letter was spearheaded by Muslim Advocates, a legal advocacy and educational organization based in Oakland, according to Madihha Ahussain, its special counsel for anti-Muslim bigotry. She said that the effort was born out of a series of meetings Sandberg had with minority groups in DC earlier this month—and frustration that, despite its talk, the company had taken few concrete steps to address the groups’ concerns. 
“We believe that coming together on this issue will send a stronger message to Facebook that we really care about these issues,” Ahussain said. By STEVEN OVERLY and NANCY SCOLA 
“We wanted to underscore that we’ve had conversations with Facebook before, many of the groups on the letter have, and we have always appreciated the fact that they’ve been open to having the conversations and listening to our concerns,” she continued. “But it’s been challenging to move the ball forward once those meetings happen and we haven’t seen meaningful change.” 
“This is not just about the Russian operatives and the ads that have been leaked to the press,” Ahussain said. “We believe that there is a lot of other content out there that hasn’t been disclosed. Our very first ask to Facebook is to disclose all of the ads that have targeted these groups.” 
In addition, the letter called for Facebook to enlist a third party to perform a civil rights “public audit” of its policies and programs, regularly convene civil rights working groups with the organizations, develop and make public a clear process on how hate speech is dealt with on the site and create a fund to provide grants to groups that combat bigotry. 
Ahussain said that, to the groups on the letter, the swirling controversy around the divisive ads is not just a Russia issue, but a Facebook one. 
“It’s not just about this one incident,” she said. “We strongly believe that the Russian operatives simply exploited and took advantage of an opportunity where they saw that there were already weaknesses.”