4 COMMENTS Good morning. We’re two days into November now, so, as has become customary in recent years, prepare yourself for smatterings of dodgy facial hair as people raise money for the annual Movember campaign to raise awareness for men’s health issues. As Adweek reports, even Burger King’s “The King” is getting involved , shaving off his trademark fluff to encourage others to get involved.
NFLull NFL ratings are down again this season, and there are a smorgasbord of theories as to why. Media executives have settled on their theory: dilution . They’re worried the NFL is making football available in too many places, from highlights channels like RedZone and streaming services like Amazon to more Thursday night and London games, The Wall Street Journal reports. Those executives might be able to pressure the NFL for better terms if the ratings erosion continues, but most of their contracts don’t come up for renewal for another four or five years. Oh well!
—Anthem Protests—
One of the other theories for the ratings decline is a backlash over players’ anthem protests. On Wednesday, the NFL’s official pizza, Papa John’s, blamed its weak third-quarter sales on the league’s leadership failing to nip the anthem protest controversy in the bud, resulting in weaker ratings and fewer people seeing Papa John’s ads. Even though ratings were also down last year, Papa John’s founder and CEO John Schnatter argued that the protests are more divisive: “The controversy is polarizing the customer, polarizing the country, and that’s the big difference here.” Despite concerns in some quarters about a football malaise, ad spending on the NFL was still up 2% year-over-year in September.
—Key Chart—
This chart calls into question whether the anthem theory holds much water. One would expect that viewer boycotts of the NFL would be more pronounced in “red states” where Trump supporters feel strongly that players should be required to stand for the anthem. But data from measurement firm Samba TV shows that red-state folks aren’t boycotting games any more than those in blue states.
Run to the Hills Facebook, Google and Twitter’s top lawyers were back in Capitol Hill on Wednesday for two more congressional hearings. So what did we learn on Day 2? Lawmakers released advertising data showing how Russian operatives targeted U.S. voters on Facebook by race, religion and interests such as gun ownership to amplify social divisions. We also got a look at some of the actual ads themselves ( you can view a slideshow here ). The data released revealed some of the credible-looking Twitter account names—such as @tpartynews, @NewYorkDem and @TheTimesOfLondn—used by the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency before, during and after the election. As Recode reported, the tech companies agreed to release more information about the ads and other Russia-linked content that appeared on their platforms, although lawmakers are now pushing them to inform users if they had unwittingly viewed propaganda. Recode also has a great summary of the six things we still don’t know about Russia’s alleged election interference on tech platforms.
Let’s Get Serious Facebook’s earnings were a tale of two halves. The social media giant posted a 79% lift in third-quarter profit, but Mark Zuckerberg warned investors he’s “dead serious” about investing in security and safety —so much so that it will “significantly impact” future profitability. For marketers, here are three newsy takeaways: Facebook has a bigger duplicate/fake account problem than it thought. About 10% of its monthly users are duplicates (up from 6% previously disclosed). But Facebook said they represent “real activity and engagement,” and it increased its estimate of “inauthentic accounts” from 2% to 3% of users. Elsewhere, COO Sheryl Sandberg said Facebook’s seeing good progress on its mid-roll video ad format, with more than 70% of ad breaks up to 15 seconds in length viewed to completion—“most with the sound on.” Ads on Facebook are becoming more expensive too, up around 35% in the quarter, thanks to more competition for each available ad slot and improved targeting, particularly around performance options for direct-response advertisers.
Poison Apple Shares in ad tech firm Criteo fell almost 10% Wednesday after the retargeting king warned about the potential impact from Apple’s new “Intelligent Tracking Prevention” feature in the Safari web browser, which limits third-party access to cookies stored on users’ devices. Criteo said it could have a $20 million impact on its revenue this quarter and a 9% to 13% negative effect on revenue in 2018, CMO Today reported. What’s Criteo doing to mitigate the effect of the tool and still help marketers target and measure ads served to Safari users? It’s a bit techie, but here we go: Its solution uses HTTP Strict Transport Security Protocol—usually used to secure web connections—that allows Criteo to create a unique user ID without cookies and match that with its own shopping intent data. Before creating that unique identifier, Criteo shows Apple users notification banners to explain what it’s doing and offer them the ability to opt out. Will it work? Criteo CEO Eric Eichmann said that it works best when connected directly with publishers and when exchanges have their ducks in a row to ensure the ID can be transferred through, which may take a little time.
—What About Us?—
In August, Mr. Eichmann warned Apple’s new tracker blocker could have a “broad-based impact on the ecosystem .” So it was interesting that shares in other major public ad tech companies also declined Wednesday: Rubicon Project (-5.3%), Telaria (-2.9%) and The Trade Desk (-1.3%).
Best of the rest Snapchat is now letting advertisers use measurement pixels to track the performance of their ads. Eventually Snapchat will also open up the use of the pixels for ad retargeting, although the company will let users opt out if they wish. [ Ad Age ]
Disney’s top-secret requirements for screening “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” are the most onerous some theater owners have ever seen. [ WSJ ]
New York Times Co.’s revenue rose 6.1% in the third quarter, boosted by growth in subscribers and ad sales for its digital products. [ WSJ ]
Amazon has consolidated its global media-buying business with IPG Mediabrands. [ Adweek ]
A look at why advertising may not be the right approach to tackling the opioid crisis. [ NYT ]
Under Armour Chief Marketing Officer Andrew Donkin is leaving the company, amid declining sales. Pamela Catlett, senior vice president and general manager of Under Armour’s women’s and youth categories, is also leaving later this month. [ WSJ ]
About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @larakiara , @VranicaWSJ , @JackMarshall , @alexbruell , @BenMullin , @srabil , @asharma
Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .
Write to Lara O’Reilly at lara.oreilly@wsj.com