News Coleen Rooney's stinging Facebook post about husband Wayne was his 'punishment' Former Manchester United ace had no idea Coleen was about to make the revealing statement about their marriage until minutes before a source has claimed Share Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
On Friday Coleen Rooney broke her silence over her marriage troubles with husband Wayne in a stinging Facebook post - and the pregnant mum-of-three only told him minutes before it went up it has been claimed. 
According to a source the lengthy and emotional post was "part of Wayne’s punishment.” Read More Coleen Rooney breaks silence over her marriage troubles - and the future with Wayne 
Coleen, who is pregnant with the couple's fourth child, said she wasn't taking the former Manchester United player back "as he's never left" and revealed her wedding ring is back on after the Wayne was caught drink driving another woman's car after a boozy night out in Alderley Edge. 
But it seems Wayne still has plenty of work to do to earn Coleen's forgiveness when she said: "I’m not going to list his good qualities as a person as I don't think he deserves it at this time but one thing is that he is a brilliant dad. Wayne Rooney with his wife Coleen who is pregnant with her fourth child (Image: PA) 
"He's made silly and selfish mistakes, some he's learnt from, some obviously not. "However maybe that will change?" 
Speaking to our sister paper the Mirror , a source said: "Coleen didn’t tell Wayne about the post until a few minutes before she put it up. 
“It’s her way of dealing with everything. Putting their problems out there for all to see is part of Wayne’s punishment.” Wayne Rooney and wife Coleen (Image: Richard Sellers/PA Wire) 
Coleen shared her feelings on Facebook just before she was seen stepping out wearing her wedding ring at a fashion lunch at Artisan Bar and Restaurant in Spinningfields. Read More Coleen Rooney steps out in Manchester with wedding ring ON after breaking silence on her marriage to Wayne 
"Before all the stories begin, Yes, I have put my wedding ring on," she wrote. 
"A lot of people will be saying "you don't have to explain yourself, don't feel like you have to do this" etc, I know I don't, but I am and I want to. Read More Coleen Rooney joins galaxy of Man United WAGs and Real Housewives at fashion lunch 
"It didn't feel right wearing my ring, I see it as a sign of commitment and I was unsure what was happening. I don't always wear my ring day to day, especially when I go the gym which is where I get stalked by paps each morning. So, if I don't always have it on, maybe it's just because am going the gym or haven't put it on before the school run!!" Like us on Facebook