Trump fans Trump haters 
These are likely just the tip of the iceberg, but it gives you an idea of the tactics Russian operatives seem to have chosen: it's sowing the seeds of division, rather than an actual endorsement of Trump. The reasoning for this is unclear: it might just be that a divided country in an ineffective country. It might be that given Trump's campaign thrived on division, this was a simple way to help. Or it might just be that this was an easier way to operate freely on Facebook without getting noticed. Politicians are having fun bashing Facebook 
Whatever the methodology, it's nice to see politicians where they're most comfortable: moral grandstanding. Facebook, Google and Twitter went through the motions of having representatives ceremonially flogged by Congress yesterday. Here's Republican senator John Kennedy of Louisiana aggressively pursuing Facebook's general counsel: These are some good questions, even if the delivery eases into the “smugly self-satisfied” category, but how did Kennedy choose to share his moment in the sun? Facebook. 
And there's the rub: tough words to internet giants cost nothing at all. Actually acting on them, and dealing with the electoral consequences is much, much tougher. As I've written before, politicians believe they're just warming up for a big fight with technology firms, but the truth is they've already fought, and they lost – they just didn't know it at the time. Facebook, Google and the like hold all the cards, and there's very little elected politicians can do to reign them in, except appeal to companies' better instincts, which feels like it has a natural ceiling in terms of effectiveness to me. 
To be entirely fair, America has a far greater chance of success in this regard than Britain (especially in a post-Brexit world where we aren't tied to 27 other countries) thanks to both its size and actually hosting the companies in question. But it requires persistent bipartisan cooperation across government in an era where friendship across the aisle is actively discouraged. Exactly the kind of divisiveness encouraged by the Russian Facebook advertising, appropriately enough. 
Action will likely, therefore, continue to be slow. But just watch that rapidly change if Mark Zuckerberg does indeed decide to run for president in 2020.