November 16, 2017 Share 
Live videos have skyrocketed on Facebook in recent months, and the social network is rewarding the creators of those videos with a new stand-alone application and a new website. 
Facebook director of product Daniel Danker announced at VidCon in June that the social network was building a stand-alone app dedicated to creators on Facebook , and that app launched for iOS users Thursday (Android to follow “in the coming months”). 
The Facebook Creator app enables users to create original video, add exclusive features to their Facebook Live offerings and connect with their communities on the social network, and product manager Chris Hatfield detailed some of the app’s features in a blog post: Live Creative Kit: Access exclusive tools that make it easy to create live broadcasts with a personalized and fun feel. Creators can add intros as openers to their live broadcasts, outros that conclude them, custom live stickers that viewers can use to interact and graphic frames to create a consistent brand. Community Tab: Connect with fans and collaborators with a unified inbox, which centralizes comments from Facebook and Instagram and messages from Messenger . 
Camera and Stories: Use fun Camera effects and frames and easily cross-post content to other platforms. Creators can also access Facebook Stories to engage with their fans. Insights: Easily access metrics to inform content creation, including analytics about your page, videos and fans. 
Creators of shows for Watch on Facebook can also log into the Facebook Creator app as their show pages in order to access all of the features mentioned above, and Hatfield said Facebook is currently testing shows with a set of creators, and it plans to “roll out more broadly” in the future. 
The social network also launched its new Facebook for Creators website , which enables creators to learn more about skills and techniques to help raise the quality of their content, locate answers to common creator-specific questions and join the community with the potential of gaining early access to new features and tools. 
Hatfield said in his blog post: “Creators around the world are sharing their videos on Facebook to build a community around their passion—whether their passion is comedy sketches, their favorite recipes or even knitting sweaters. On Facebook, creators can connect with more than 2 billion potential fans and collaborators, get to know their community, talk directly to fans with Live and monetize with products like branded content . We understand that creators have specific needs, and we’re committed to helping them on their journey as they grow and find their community.” 
And vice president of product Fidji Simo added in a Facebook post: “To help creators grow on Facebook, it’s important that we continue building tools for them to be successful, which is why I’m really excited about two new updates launching today for creators. We’re rolling out a new app that will be a one-stop shop for creators of all sizes, which will let creators easily make original videos, go live with exclusive features and connect with their community on Facebook. We’ve also launched a new website dedicated to providing creators with inspiration, support and education. We’ve gathered feedback from creators as we’ve built these resources, and we will continue to take cues from the community as we try to make the Facebook experience fun and easy for creators so that they can do what they do best.” Share