Cia Young 
Nearly a year has passed since Farmington Hills, Michigan woman Danielle Stislicki vanished without a trace. Recently, a Facebook page dedicated to helping find Danielle thanked those who have been actively been supporting search efforts. 
The post on the Find Danielle Stislicki Facebook page expressed gratitude to all who have been supportive over the past 11 months, calling it “incredible.” The message notes how supporters have worn special ribbons, pins, bracelets, and bicycle jerseys adorned with messages that are meant to keep Danielle’s plight in the public eye. 
According to the Facebook post, many individuals have also created and hung missing person flyers in various locations, attended women’s self-defense classes, and held prayer vigils, all in an effort to help find Danielle. 
The message concludes by noting that those who have aided efforts to try to find Danielle have kept those who know and love her “afloat during some dark days” and gave a hearty “Thank you” to everyone. 
At press, Danielle is still missing and no new leads have been made public regarding her case. Nevertheless, a man who’s considered a person of interest in Danielle’s disappearance was offered a plea deal in an unrelated jogger attack. 
Floyd Galloway Jr., 30, has been charged with kidnapping, sexual assault, and assault with the intent to commit murder, in the jogger case, according to the Detroit Free Press . The attack allegedly took place in September 2016, two months before Danielle vanished. 
Galloway was offered a plea deal that stipulates if he pleads guilty to kidnapping and criminal sexual conduct and assault with intent to do bodily harm, the charge of intent to commit murder would be dropped. The deal would result in Galloway spending 15 to 35 years behind bars. 
If he takes the deal, Galloway would also be placed on the lifetime sex offender registry , according to WXYZ Detroit . He reportedly has until November 10 to decide whether he will take the plea deal. 
Galloway is now being held on $350,000 cash surety bond and “no 10 percent,” Click on Detroit reports. If he is able to come up with the bond, he will be released and required to be monitored via GPS while under house arrest at his parents’ residence. Danielle Stislicki: Facebook Post Asks Hunters To Be On The Lookout For Evidence In Missing Woman’s Case https://t.co/jkEi0w5c2v 
— Inquisitr News (@theinquisitr) October 13, 2017 
As for Danielle’s case , the nationally syndicated show Crime Watch Daily with Chris Hansen recently focused on her story and disappearance. 
The show revealed that witnesses reported seeing Danielle with Galloway the night she vanished. He was a security guard at the building where she worked, according to CWD . 
Livonia Police Chief Curtis Caid confirmed this to CWD , saying that Galloway was “the last person to be seen with Danielle….” He added that after comparing DNA from Danielle’s case and that of the female jogger, “There was a match between the two cases… That was the right guy.” 
Galloway’s house has been searched several times in connection with Danielle’s case, with a mattress and some floorboards removed from the home. 
Galloway has not been charged with any crime related to Danielle. 
Danielle, 28 at the time, went missing in the late afternoon of Friday, December 2, 2016, after leaving her job at MetLife at around 5 p.m. She had plans later in the evening to meet a lifelong female friend for dinner after first stopping at her apartment on the way home from work. 
When Danielle failed to show up for the planned dinner her friend became extremely worried. When she was unable to make contact with Danielle by Saturday and Danielle failed to show up for work, the friend became alarmed. She then headed to the Independence Green apartment complex where Danielle lives and when the friend arrived, she found Danielle’s Jeep Renegade parked near her apartment. [Image by Farmington Hills Police Department] 
Local law enforcement later announced that inside Danielle’s locked Jeep was her purse, her identification, and her credit cards. Danielle’s keys and cell phone were nowhere to be found, thus, authorities announced her key ring contains a unique key charm consisting of a yellow figure with a green body and yellow legs. Danielle’s cell phone is a Samsung Galaxy Core Prime in a rose gold case. [Image by Farmington Hills Police Department] 
Danielle is described as being 5-feet, 5-inches tall, and weighing about 123 pounds. She has brown wavy medium-length hair and was wearing a black shirt, blue jeans, a blue Eddie Bauer jacket, and burgundy boots when she vanished. [Image by Farmington Hills Police Department] 
Police want to speak to anyone who may have spotted Danielle or her Jeep between 5 p.m. on Friday, December 2, and 6 p.m. on Saturday, December 3, when her vehicle was found. Danielle’s vehicle is a black 2015 Jeep Renegade with Michigan License Plate DGH 8957. [Image by Farmington Hills Police Department] 
The website www.finddani.org is another place where those who want to support the search for Danielle can find a bevy of information about her case. In addition, in the “How Can I Help?” section of the website it features social media links to the Twitter page @find_dani and details about tagging tweets and retweets. In addition, a link exists to the finddaniellestislicki Instagram page where memories of the young woman are being shared. 
At press, a Go Fund Me campaign offering a reward for information that will lead to Danielle had jumped to $34,715, surpassing its original goal of $25,000 by several thousand dollars. Danielle’s employer, MetLife is offering a $50,000 reward, and the Independence Green apartment complex where Danielle lives is offering another $50,000, making the current reward $134,715. 
Anyone who has information regarding Danielle Stislicki is urged to call the Farmington Hills Police Command Desk at 248-871-2610 or Crime Stoppers at 1-800-SPEAK-UP or 1-800-773-2587. Those who call with any information about the missing woman can remain anonymous if they so desire. 
[Featured Image by Find Danielle Stislicki/ Facebook ]