Demo-Graphics: Comic Fandom on Facebook – US Edition Posted on by Brett Leave a comment 
Each month I run demographic data of comic “fans” based on data mined from Facebook. 
This data is compiled using key terms, “likes,” users have as part of their profiles. Primarily terms are focused on generic ones such as “comics” or “graphic novels” or publishers. I stay away from specific characters, creators or series because this does not indicate they are a comic book fan. Over 100 terms are used for this report. 
This data is important in that it shows who the potential comic audience could be. This is not purchasers, these are people who have shown an affinity for comics and are potential purchasers and those with an interest. 
Also, with this being online/technology, due to laws and restrictions, those under the age of 13 are likely underrepresented. 
Facebook Population: Over 56,000,000 in the United States 
That’s an explosion of 24 million individuals. The European report also saw a recent jump so we can only assume something has changed in the algorithms. Worldwide, the estimate is 260,594,214 which is an increase of about 22.5 million compared to last month. 
The Spanish-speaking population last month was 15.00%, and this month the population has decreased to 13.57%, not keeping up with the population increase. Gender and Age 
Last month men accounted for 50% and women were 50%. This month shifts with women accounting for 51.79% and men accounting for 44.64%. When looking at the data for ages men account for 25.6 million and women are 29.2 million. When it comes to relationship status men are 25.2 million and women are 28.8 million. 
Men at no point are the majority now, though it’s a 50/50 split from 26-29 years old. Relationship Status 
With a population book, things have exploded here too. Generally things remained steady with the largest segments losing a few percentage points that all went to “Unspecified.” Education 
While there are a few levels of education where men and women are even, men are only the majority for a “Professional degree.” Gender Interest 
The population has boomed and for raw numbers every grouping saw an increase. When it comes to those interested in the same gender they each saw a decrease in percent even though the population grew for each. Ethnicity 
African Americans increased by 3.3 million though the percent decreased. Asian Americans increased by 680,000 with the percent also decreasing. Hispanics decreased as a percentage but the population grew by 3.1 million and all subcategories saw increases too. 


And come back next month for a new look at the data! And on February 15th we’ll have the next report of Europe’s data! Share this: