Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
A Derby man who is accused of planning a terrorist attack had material from Facebook on his mobile phone on how to make a bomb, a court has heard. 
Munir Mohammed is on trial at the Old Bailey charged with planning an attack on the UK with co defendant Rowaida El-Hassan. 
Today the jury heard he had taken screenshots from a Facebook post which were instructions on how to construct a bomb and detonate it remotely by a mobile phone. 
Mohammed, of Leopold Street, also had a video on his laptop which showed how to produce the poison ricin, the jury heard. Gold statue of the figure of justice, holding scales and a sword, on top of the Central Criminal Court, also referred to as the Old Bailey (Image: PA Wire) 
Mohammed, 36, and El-Hassan, 33, of Willesden Lane, north-west London, are accused of preparing terrorist acts between November 2015 and December 2016. Both deny the charge. 
Prosecutor Anne Whyte QC said the Facebook post, which Mohammed is alleged to have taken a screenshot of, said the "advantage of using the phone in explosions is that you can bomb even if outside Egypt". Read More Derby man accused of buying nail polish in Asda because he thought it could make explosive 
The Facebook post said "remote detonation using mobile phone, it is very simple and very easy", the trial, which is expected to last several weeks, heard. 
It is also alleged the material he had which showed how to produce ricin was "very detailed" and "accurate information". 
A message was shown to the jury which they were told was sent on Facebook to Mohammed by a man who it is alleged he believed was an Islamic State commander called Abubakr Kurdi. Pictured is a court sketch artist impression of Derby man Munir Mohammed. Picture: Julia Quenzler. 
The Facebook message, which the trial heard was sent on August 12, said: "Pray forgiveness to God my dear brother. I hope God will put you on the right path and give you what you want. We will be in contact with God's will to organise something new." 
In September, the prosecution say Mohammed sent a message back which said: "If possible send how you make dough for Syrian bread and other types of food." 
The jury were told the next day Kurdi replied to say he wanted to connect or liaise with "working brothers". 
It continued that he would then be informed how to make Syrian bread. 
More communication in the previous month between Mohammed and co-accused El-Hassan, of London, was shown to the jury. Read More