Designs for simple social media post for Instagram and Facebook 
We require images for the following posts 
Instagram x30 ¡Ofrécete a trabajar en este proyecto ahora! El proceso de oferta termina en 7 días. Abierto - quedan 7 días Tu oferta para este trabajo AUD Establece tu presupuesto y plazo Describe tu propuesta Recibe dinero por tu trabajo Es gratis registrarse y ofertar en los trabajos 18 los freelancers están ofertando un promedio de $74 para este trabajo. HIRE ME!!! Sir, My name is Argha and I am a Graphic Design contractor located in India.I have over 10 years of experience in poster and graphic design. I would love to have the opportunity with you about yo Más $55 AUD en 2 días (294 comentarios) Hi, I completely go through with your project description about Designs for simple social media post. I am an expert in this field and you can check my work on my Portfolio also. Relevant Skills and Experience Havin Más $40 AUD en 2 días (258 comentarios) I would love to work on your project. [url removed, login to view] Here is the link to my portfolio Relevant Skills and Experience I've got more than 6 years of work experience in the field of grap Más $160 AUD en 3 días (69 comentarios) Hi, I read your project social media post description i am interested in working with you. Have a look at my portfolio [url removed, login to view] Relevant Skills and Experience I have been a graphic Más $30 AUD en 2 días (89 comentarios) Hello, I have read Your project description regarding GRAPHIC Designs. You can check my freelancer portfolio for my previous top quality work I am very interested in your project and also I am ready to start immedia Más $50 AUD en 1 día (48 comentarios) Hello! I'm super-cool PHOTOSHOP DESIGNER and I can make really high-quality job for you. Confirmation of my words - my profile and portfolio. [url removed, login to view] Relevant Skills and Experie Más $30 AUD en 2 días (12 comentarios) I am interested in your recent opening, and would like to submit my application. With a master’s diploma in Graphic designing and over 7 years of experience, I am a great candidate for this position. Relevant Skills a Más $50 AUD en 1 día (19 comentarios) Hi there! Have you ever seen something that pulled you in and kept you delightfully intrigued? That's what I do. I have read your project and I understand what you need. As your requirements, I'm confident that I'll Más $100 AUD en 3 días (3 comentarios) suninfolabs Dear sir, I have a team of expert developer and designer who can give make any kind of application with their skill set. I have seen requirements and I am 100 % sure that I can make it happened with latest design Más $100 AUD en 3 días (3 comentarios)