Skip in Skip x Embed
x Share
CLOSE Major social media companies returned to Capitol Hill Wednesday to answer questions by frustrated senators about how they will prevent Russian interference on their platforms. (Nov. 1) AP
Social Networking giant remains reluctant to expose fundamental flaws that underlie its incredible success. Facebook (Photo: Justin Tallis, AFP/Getty Images)
CONNECT TWEET 3 LINKEDIN 5 COMMENT EMAIL MORE This week a Facebook executive testified before Congressional committees investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. The evidence is now overwhelming that Facebook, along with Google, Twitter, and other social media platforms, was central to the manipulation. The company has confirmed that Russian manipulation touched as many as 126 million Facebook users , but is doing everything it can to limit the scope of the investigation.
Not cooperating fully is a terrible for strategy for the country and for Facebook. With mid-term elections only a year away, the country has not even internalized the scope of the 2016 manipulation, much less taken sufficient steps to prevent a repeat in 2018. There is no way to get to bottom of the problem quickly without full cooperation from Facebook, cooperation that has not been forthcoming.
More: I invested early in Google and Facebook. Now they terrify me.
More: If Mark Zuckerberg wants forgiveness, he's going to need to come clean first
Facebook has compelling reasons not to cooperate fully, and also for trying to limit its exposure to political advertisements. Why? The Russian manipulation played Facebook (and other internet platforms) like a Stradivarius, exploiting not just advertisements, but regular posts, groups, events , and Facebook users who could be manipulated unwittingly. The manipulation was sophisticated and it leveraged every aspect of Facebook.
Russia exploited Facebook’s advertising business model, which uses techniques of persuasion to create addiction, making users more open to the ads that generate Facebook’s enormous profits. It exploited Facebook’s algorithms, the massive collection of programs that determine who sees what on the platform, which favor posts that appeal to low level emotions like fear and anger . It exploited Facebook’s filter bubbles, which result from the platform’s strategy of giving users “what they want,” a steady stream of posts that confirm pre-existing views and create the illusion for many users that everyone agrees with them. It exploited Facebook’s automation to interfere in elections in the US, the UK , Holland, France and Germany . It may still be exploiting Facebook to sow discord around the world.
Facebook is reluctant to cooperate because doing so would expose fundamental flaws that underlie its incredible success. The Russian manipulation demonstrates that the platform is flawed at its core. It cannot be fixed by hiring 5,000 — or even 50,000 — contractors to monitor posts. It can only be fixed by changing the foundation of Facebook’s business: the business model, algorithms, filter bubbles and automation.
I understand why Facebook does not want to transform its business. In only 13 years, the company has grown from nothing to being the most important media company in the world, with more than two billion active monthly users , 1.3 billion of whom use the site every day. The company has generated $33 billion in revenues and $ 13 billion in net profit over the past year, making it among the most valuable companies in the world. Until the past couple months, Facebook executives enjoyed a tsunami of love from investors, users and politicians. The harsh spotlight of investigations and public criticism took the company by surprise.
More: 'The Advocate' knew about Kevin Spacey's encounter with teen, but didn't speak. Here's why
POLICING THE USA: A look at race, justice, media
As someone who has always admired Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, I have some advice for my friends: Do what Johnson & Johnson did with Tylenol . Accept that your platform is being exploited by bad actors to harm millions of users. Accept that you are responsible because the technology you designed and built was used to cause harm. You failed to anticipate the unintended consequences that are causing so much harm. You have made a fortune from this technology.
Prior to the 2016 election, I realized that bad actors were exploiting Facebook to cause harm in politics, governance, and business. I reached out to Zuckerberg and Sandberg. I worked with their team for several months, saying nothing publicly, in the hope that I could persuade Facebook to be proactive about what appeared to me to be a structural problem. I felt bad that Facebook rejected my concerns until I learned that they did the same thing with former president Obama . They took the position then that Facebook is not responsible for what third parties do on its platform. They still make that argument. The problem is that when you are as huge as Facebook, you cannot dodge responsibility.
By not cooperating, Facebook is playing a dangerous game. If they win, we lose. Facebook needs to find a solution where the country wins.
Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook and Google, is the managing director and co-founder of Elevation Partners.
You can read diverse opinions from our Board of Contributors and other writers on the Opinion front page , on Twitter @USATOpinion and in our daily Opinion newsletter . To respond to a column, submit a comment to letters@usatoday.com.