Diego Maradona's Facebook post after Zlatan Ibrahimovic's return to football Published 24/7 
Zlatan Ibrahimovic is back in business. 
The legendary Swede injured his knee ligaments on 20 April against Anderlecht in the Europa League and there was a fear that his career could be over. 
But, as he’s often insisted, ‘Lions don’t recover like humans’ and has returned just seven months later. 
In fact, Zlatan’s injury may have been worse than we all originally thought - that’s according to the man himself. 
"If people knew the real injury, they would be in shock that I was even playing. It was more than the knee but I will keep it personal – that’s why I choose not to talk of it,” he said after his 13-minute cameo against Newcastle. 
While Manchester United fans will be delighted to see the 36-year-old back in action, the whole footballing world will also be happy to see him take to the field. 
After all, he’s one of the biggest personalities in football. Maradona's Facebook post 
And one man that is delighted to see him back is Diego Maradona. 
The Argentine legend was so delighted that he even posted a status on his official Facebook page. 
After Zlatan returned, he posted an image of the striker in action with a caption that translates to: “Happy, because he came back Zlatan Ibrahimovic!!!Football was waiting for you…” 
The whole sport was waiting for him!? That’s a big statement. 
But we know what Maradona means. 
While it’s going to be difficult for Ibrahimovic to find his feet immediately after such a long time out, he should be applauded for getting himself fit so quickly and refusing to give up on his career. Zlatan refused to give up 
And Ibra insisted that retiring after his serious injury as never an option. 
“When it happened I said giving up was not an option," he said. 
"My only focus was on coming back and coming back better. I know it’s my head playing, not my knee; my knee has to follow. With my experience and career I know what I have to do but I feel good. 
"I am very proud of the moment to play again and for everyone around me because I wouldn’t have done it alone. Thanks to the supporters for keeping me motivated, the coach who’s trusted me, the club that believes in me and my family obviously.” 
It's good to have you back, Zlatan. 
Do YOU want to write for GiveMeSport? Get started today by signing-up and submitting an article HERE: http://gms.to/writeforgms Topics: