5 / 5 Early Facebook backer says company uses methods of Nazi Germany's Goebbels to addict you 
In order to maintain your attention they have taken all the techniques of Edward Bernays and Joseph Goebbels... and they've mapped it on to an all-day product with highly personalized information in order to addict you The Telegraph Published on: November 11, 2017 | Last Updated: November 11, 2017 1:19 PM PST 
In this Tuesday, April 18, 2017, file photo, a conference worker passes a demo booth at Facebook's annual F8 developer conference in San Jose, Calif. AP Photo/Noah Berger, File Share Adjust Comment Print 
An early investor in Facebook has compared the social network’s methods to those of Nazi propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels and Edward Bernays, the “father of public relations” who promoted smoking for women. 
Roger McNamee, who made a fortune from early backing of the social network, suggested Facebook and other technology giants like Google have substituted in “phoney relationships for real relationships” and were not being held accountable. 
He said: “In order to maintain your attention they have taken all the techniques of Edward Bernays and Joseph Goebbels, and all of the other people from the world of persuasion, and all the big ad agencies, and they’ve mapped it on to an all-day product with highly personalized information in order to addict you. We are all to one degree or another addicted.” 
Roger McNamee works on his computer inside his office at Elevation Partners in Menlo Park, California, on June 17, 2005. JOANNE HO-YOUNG LEE / San Jose Mercury News 
McNamee is the latest in a series of tech investors to denounce what they see as the evils of social media but has previously commented that the people running the companies aren’t “terrible” people. 
“I don’t think they are consciously doing bad things. I think what happened was they each adopted an advertising-based business model that essentially encouraged engagement,” McNamee said previously. 
Sean Parker, the former president of Facebook, this week denounced the social network for “exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology” and suggested it might be putting children’s mental health at risk. 
There are millions of things they can show you and they pick the 20 things most commercially valuable to them, and these are not designed to make you wiser, better educate or healthier 
McNamee told The Daily Telegraph: “Many of these methods are the same as they use in casinos. The problem is the advertising business model. There are millions of things they can show you and they pick the 20 things most commercially valuable to them, and these are not designed to make you wiser, better educate or healthier. 
“I think their moral compass is really heavily affected from the pervading culture in the U.S., which basically says people are not responsible for downstream consequences of their actions.” 
In this Tuesday, April 18, 2017, file photo, a conference worker passes a demo booth at Facebook’s annual F8 developer conference in San Jose, Calif. AP Photo/Noah Berger, File 
He said, similar to tabloid newspaper wars dating back to the 19th century, “fear and anger” had become the predominant emotions on the social network. We have lowered the civil discourse, people have become less civil to each other.”