On Halloween week, many companies stating gain are watchful until after Tuesday’s spookiness to yield their figures, though that only creates Wednesday and Thursday some-more swarming with reports, led by Apple Inc., Facebook Inc. and Tesla Inc. 
Here’s what to expect: 
Wednesday is set to be a vast day, with auto-maker Tesla 
TSLA, -0.25% 
reporting after a bell. Freewheeling Chief Executive Elon Musk mostly hosts noted gain calls, distinct many of his comparatively undisturbed peers. Investors will be looking closely during a company’s Model 3 prolongation numbers, that have depressed brief of what a association needs to strike to accommodate a lofty targets Musk has set. 
Don’t miss: Tesla earnings: Model 3 production, direct underneath a microscope 
Also Wednesday is Facebook 
FB, +1.12% 
that reports after a close, and a day after approaching congressional testimony on Russian use of a social-networking height in efforts to lean 2016 choosing results. Investors are awaiting scarcely $10 billion in income for a third entertain and will closely guard what executives contend a association is doing to fight decelerating income from aging products, like a news feed, and efforts to siphon in additional ad dollars around new products, such as video. 
Read: Facebook earnings: Two ways a social-networking titan can grow even incomparable 
The biggest news of a week, however, is also a many essential association in a land: Apple. Investors will be looking for any and all clues about a new $1,000 iPhone X sales, intensity supply issues and sum about a new iPhone 8s, that went on sale only before a finish of a third quarter. But some analysts contend that a supply issues with a iPhone X might indeed assistance a association in a prolonged run. Apple 
AAPL, +2.25% 
is one of 3 components of a Dow Jones Industrial Average 
DJIA, -0.36% 
set to news this week, along with Pfizer on Tuesday morning and DowDuPont on Thursday. 
Read: Apple earnings: iPhone X supply is a question, though a answer might not matter 
Other tech reports: Videogame builder Electronic Arts Inc. 
EA, +0.59% 
is one of a few companies peaceful to recover formula on Halloween, kicking off a bustling week for Silicon Valley companies Tuesday. 
Rounding out Wednesday’s vast tech day are tool makers Fitbit Inc. 
FIT, +0.66% 
and GoPro Inc. 
GPRO, +3.40% 
. Investors will be eyeing Fitbit’s new smartwatch, that a association has set adult to contest with a new Series 3 watch from Apple. But reviews advise a association still has a ways to go with a hardware, and given a new watch went on sale Oct. 1, superintendence will be a thing investors watch closely. 
See also: The iPhone X and other new gadgets that will matter this holiday season 
Cybersecurity firms Symantec Corp.