IU Northwest Senior University Offers Free Lessons in Jazz, Yoga, Facebook and More 
Nov 02 06:00 PM - 08:00 PM 
Indiana University Northwest Description 
Indiana University Northwest’s Center for Urban and Regional Excellence offers free workshops for those aged 55 and better through its Senior University program. Workshops take place at various locations on the IU Northwest campus in Gary, Ind. 
Senior University offerings include: 
Wednesday and Thursday, Sept. 6 and 73 to 5 p.m. 
This workshop will highlight outstanding jazz performances by both legendary and current jazz artists. Led by IU Northwest’s own Billy Foster, the workshop will include information about the location of the performance, type of jazz, the performer, and his/her importance in the world of jazz. 
Chair Yoga Wednesdays, Sept. 13 through Nov. 14:30 to 6 p.m. 
Seniors will engage in a gentle form of yoga that is practiced sitting in a chair or standing, using a chair for support. Participants will engage their muscle groups in light flexibility and stability exercises while focusing on meditative breathing exercises. Deadline to register is Wednesday, Sept. 6. 
Facebook Thursdays, Oct. 19 through Nov. 26 to 8 p.m. 
Learn how to customize your Facebook page, communicate with family and friends, and protect your information. In addition to Facebook, participants will learn about other social media platforms, such as Instagram, LinkedIn, and Twitter. Deadline to register is Thursday, Oct. 12. 
Zentangle Thursday, Nov. 9 and Friday, Dec. 8Noon to 2 p.m. 
Zentangle® is an easy-to-learn, relaxing, and fun way to create beautiful images. Through drawing patterns, participants will learn how to create beauty while relaxing and connecting with their creative side. Art or drawing background is not necessary. All materials are provided. Register by Wednesday, Nov. 1 (for the November 9 workshop) or by Thursday, Nov. 30 (for the December 8 workshop). 
Photography Friday, Nov. 17 and Friday, Dec. 111 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
These workshops will provide a brief overview of the “how to” and the “history of” great photography. They will offer participants the chance to learn key photography techniques through the work of important documentary photographers. Participants will also have the opportunity to inquire on technical matters, from understanding a camera's manual settings to uploading and sharing digital photos to the Internet and more. Open to all interest and skill levels. Participants should bring a camera or cell phone to use during the workshop. Register by Thursday, Nov. 9 (for the November 17 workshop) or by Tuesday, Nov. 21 (for the December 1 workshop). 
Registration Details Senior University is sponsored by the Center for Urban and Regional Excellence (CURE) . Space in the workshops is limited, and advance registration is required. For more information, contact CURE at (219) 980-6978 or . 
In your voice or email message, please include your name, mailing address, email address, phone number, and the workshop(s) you wish to attend. Staff will contact you within four business days as to the status of your registration. 
About the Center for Urban and Regional Excellence The Center for Urban and Regional Excellence at Indiana University Northwest engages the university and the community in partnerships that jointly formulate programs and policies to support thriving Northwest Indiana communities. The Center works collaboratively with organizations in all sectors to address challenges and co-create solutions in diverse areas including economic development, government efficiency, nonprofit leadership development, public safety, transportation policy, environmental sustainability, health disparities, and arts and culture. 
About Indiana University Northwest One of eight campuses of Indiana University, IU Northwest is located in metropolitan Northwest Indiana, approximately 30 miles southeast of Chicago and 10 miles from the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. The campus has a diverse student population of approximately 4,000 degree-seeking students and 1,500 dual-degree-seeking students. The campus offers Associate, Baccalaureate and Master’s degrees in a variety of undergraduate, graduate and pre-professional degree options available from the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Health and Human Services, the School of Business and Economics, and the School of Education. The campus is also host to IU School of Medicine-Northwest-Gary, which actively involves students in research and local healthcare needs through its four-year medical doctorate program. IU Northwest emphasizes high-quality teaching, faculty and student research and engagement on campus and in the community. As a student-centered campus, IU Northwest is committed to academic excellence characterized by a love of ideas and achievement in learning, discovery, creativity and engagement. Indiana University Northwest is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer committed to achieving excellence through diversity. The University actively encourages applications from women, minorities, veterans, persons with disabilities, and members of other underrepresented groups. Venue