In Sydney Central Local Court yesterday, police allege two men used the following underworld hand signals. 
Eye is for ice. 
Nose is for cocaine. 
What appears to have motivated both men is greed — the time-honoured tradition in the drug trade that so often brings players down. 
"I want to work together so we can start our sort of line." 
With those words, 41-year-old Adelaidean Dimitrios "Jimmy" Gountounas and 40-year-old Sydneysider Leo Yan Lai Cheung revealed their motivation for branching out — that's what the NSW Police alleged in their Statement of Facts presented to the Sydney Central Local Court on Friday. 
Police allege the pair wanted to leave another drug-importing business they'd been part of for more than a year and have a multi-million-dollar business of their own. 
They didn't seem to care what drugs they sourced — cocaine or ice — nor where the drugs came from — variously discussing Africa, Mexico, later Brazil — but at that moment they just needed the special skills of an importer. 
On March 13 this year, they sat down for the first time with their man, but not without suspicions. A drug dealer's trust 
"How are you gonna establish our trust?" Gountounas said to the importer as outlined by NSW Police. 
"So we … 'cause this is the situation. Everything you asked for is not a problem. Sending people and sending a tonne, it's not a problem. Any location. It's not a problem. The problem is, we give you the stuff, it's all in your control. There's stuff ready right now." 
"Maybe 50 is fine, but next time what about I give you half a tonne?" said Cheung, testing the waters. 
They appear also to have taken some precautions in case their voices were recorded — referring to their nose for cocaine or by pointing to their eye to indicate ice — methamphetamine. 
But all the while, NSW Police was filming the entire conversation. The importer — a law enforcement operative. 
Strike Force Rowena had been underway for a month — excerpts from the conversations were contained in the NSW Police Fact Sheets after the pair were arrested. 
As part of the unfolding operation, NSW Police engaged the services of the Australian Criminal Intelligence Commission as well as the US Drug Enforcement Agency and later the Mexican Federal Police. 
"Through our partnerships we're able to go to the source of these drugs and [have] an impact there," Detective Superintendent Scott Cook of NSW Police Force Organised Crime Squad said at a press conference on Friday. 
"They're not a crime gang in the sense of a bikie gang. Organised crime in NSW is changing, it's evolving into a network business model. It's a market place. It's economic." Photo: Police say they uncovered the plan to send the drugs by container ship to Australia in September. (Supplied: NSW Police) The unfolding conspiracy 
The NSW Police Fact Sheet clearly reveals the issues of trust had been resolved when Gountounas, Cheung and the operative met again in central Sydney. 
The two alleged drug distributors openly talked about a previous importation using metallic water pumps to conceal product. 
"With the water pumps that time, they had to grind them open to get it out, this is not a good method because the time to take out," Gountounas is recorded as saying. 
He told Cheung they'd need quick access to the product in case it was, "flagged to be searched by Australian Border Force". A fight over payment 
But then the relationship appeared to begin to fray, according to the police allegations. 
The operative requested he be paid $200,000 up front with 20 per cent of the sales of the product to wholesalers. 
Gountounas then confirmed it would be "coke". The operative was adamant: "Mate, honestly, I don't want to touch it." 
Gountounas and he then talked the cocaine business in Australia. 
"Bring in 500 kilos, we're not gonna f***in' ask for f***in' 180 grand a kilo, you know 'cause we want the same thing for us … we want to pay you, we want to get paid too." 
"All right," agreed the operative. 
Gountounas followed up: "We want to get rid of this shit as quick as possible." 
He might have been from Adelaide, but he later declared his distribution plans were for Sydney, the NSW Police court document outlines. Video: Four Australians have been charged over an ice and cocaine importation 'conspiracy' (ABC News) Not happy 
Further in the document, it details that on June 9 the trio met again — this time in the car park of a restaurant next to the Lane Cove River in West Chatswood. 
Gountounas relayed some bad news to the operative. His contacts, "were not happy with the terms" of the deal. 
"Normally 20 per cent share is, like, door to door. They give you the stuff — country of origin, you get the stuff here in Australia," he said. 
He was adamant about the size of the deal. 
"They're not gonna just do a tonne on the first one. What we want is a long-term relationship. And obviously the smallers are just to establish trust." 
They continued to discuss locations with Mexico and Africa as options. Eventually Gountounas made the call. 
"We're gonna work on Mexico, somewhere in South America, that's obviously the easiest. We're gonna work on getting your guys to go pack with them, and we're gonna work, say, let's say that's all good." 
They then discussed ways to communicate so as to avoid detection. Trust resolved 
Within days, Cheung met the operative in central Sydney to share private communications methods. 
He told the operative he was waiting for someone to come to Australia and asked if the operative was prepared to show the visitor how to prepare the drugs for importation. 
The operative agreed. 
At this point police say Cheung stated: "We will do 50", referring to 50 kilograms of ice. 
Remember, it's alleged, this first importation was a test of the relationship. A business deal finalised 
By June 23, police allege Gountounas sent a message to the operative: "We discussed 50 was purely to show each others' credibility … When discussing 50, u said that was the case you would want your share in product to maximise profit. Eye was preference over nose for purpose of this exercise as basic cost involved would mean 50 would be acceptable to test both sides' procedures, capabilities, ability and service." 
Almost three weeks later, that amount was increased to 100 kilograms and then 101 kilograms. Why the extra kilogram is not explained. 
"So after much consideration. We would like to propose we send 100 on 1st run ... That should also alleviate any concerns you have regarding costs to initiate the job…" the message read. 
In a series of communications intercepted by police, it's alleged the ice will come from Mexico City. The associates of Cheung and Gountounas would meet the operative's people for packing and importing. 
And that the operative would receive 20 per cent wholesale value of the ice once it was sold. Photo: Police said drugs were being sourced from Mexico and Colombia. (Supplied: NSW Police) Details details details 
In the Police Fact sheet submitted to the court on July 23, there was a flurry of messages — the deal was done. The ice was ready for export to Australia — they'd even created a fictitious invoice. 
On August 18, police allege Cheung supplied the operative with his supply connection in Mexico, 'Peter'. 
A week later, he provided an address for the location of the, "items to be used for the importation and concealment of the 100 kilograms of methamphetamine" on the outskirts of Toluca near its international airport. 
Three weeks later, he gave the address of where the ice could be picked up — a non-descript property around the corner from the Peralvillo Children's Hospital with a Jehovah's Witness church on the next block. A token of security 
It's almost mythic now how currencies are used to prove identity and secure trust in the drug trade. 
This deal was no different. 
On September 14, the Australian law enforcement operative had arrived in Mexico to carry out his end of the bargain — that of drug importer. 
Cheung had allegedly given him a 20 pesos banknote with a serial number: Q3609499. 
It was that note that the operative then exchanged with an unknown male person in Mexico City to gain his trust and get the product. 
The operative took the ice, which was already packed in suitcases — it was later seized by Mexican Federal Police. 
Cheung allegedly then wrote to the operative: "All good. We got the token. Plz let me know the weight today. Mex worker said there should be 101.1 put extra more just in case it losses weight. If your guy know how to check the product, plz let me know the quality as well. Have a good day!" Photo: Two men were arrested and charged with attempt to possess a commercial quantity of border controlled drug and supply large commercial quantity of prohibited drug. (AAP) Sales and smiley faces 
Over the next month with the "shipment" en route to Australia, Gountounas reveals they've got a successful pre-sold to the producer, according to the Police Fact sheet submitted to the court. 
"Yeah we have buyers in place. we are selling at 80." 
Police say that means $80,000 per kilo — wholesale — an $8 million haul which NSW Police allege could be sold on the streets for more than $50 million. 
"Is that Sydney market or elsewhere?" asked the operative. 
"Sydney mate. We will release on Monday. You will have your money that week." New conspiracies 
Police allege Gountounas and Cheung appear to have been so happy with the arrangement, they were prepared to enter into new deals before their Mexican ice had arrived. 
This time, 500 kilograms of cocaine from Colombia, police allege. 
"Hey I know we don't want to cross lines etc. But we are all pretty confident in your services and given all progresses as smoothly as it should. The guys are professional and are already coordinating or should I say preparing other projects. So a quick question, can your service pick up from Columbia?" Gountounas allegedly wrote in a message. 
In a follow-up message, as part of the Police Fact sheet submitted to the court: "... Next job is pretty much ready as soon as u can let us know when u can get your guys there… So as soon as this one is safe and in their hands we can initiate the next one immediately. Will be 500 or more max capacity… 
"...Really looking forward to completion of this one, and onto bigger and better ones. Also they will be very frequent. 
"This initial one was/is for all intents and purposes a trial run. So everyone involved is happy and confident with the outfit collectively." 
Later, in a discussion with the operative, Cheung is alleged to have boasted about their, "strong connection in southern-east China and India as well". Photo: Police seized drugs in a container that were to be shipped to Australia. (NSW Police) Two drivers and a series of arrests 
Again a token was used in Sydney after the ice importation had arrived and "cleared customs". This time an Australian $5 note: DF163956475. 
At 10:00am this past Thursday, another law-enforcement operative waited with Gountounas in a Toyota Hiace van. 
Two drivers handed over a $5 note and the transaction was complete, according to the Police Fact sheet submitted to the court. 
Drivers Jason Keurschner and Cameron Fraser — both from South Australia — took over the vehicle and drove it to the Novotel Hotel in Pyrmont. 
Police allege they joked about not needing concierge services: 
"Do you need a hand with your bags?" 
"No we f***ing don't. Thank you very much." 
After their arrest, it's alleged they both told police they were paid $15,000 by a person in Adelaide they wouldn't name. 
Cheung was later arrested. Police allege they found $50,435 in Australian cash at his home. 
Gountounas was also arrested at his home. His swish Kensington Gardens jewellery shop was also searched. 
"They were surprised — most criminals are when we kick their door in and have a chat to them," Detective Superintendent Cook said on Friday. 
For all their precautions, Cheung and Gountounas appear to have been friends on Facebook the entire time. 
Gountounas is expected to be extradited to Sydney. Both face bail hearings in a fortnight. 
They have been charged with supplying large commercial quantities of drugs and attempting to possess a controlled border substance.