Zuckerberg apologises for misjudging the mood with cartoon VR tour of Puerto Rico 
“We see many scenarios where maybe photos or videos were taken consensually at one point, but there was not any sort of consent to send the images or videos more broadly,” Grant said. 
Up to now, Facebook users have been told to report images to “specially trained representatives” on the company’s community team. The image would be taken down if it violates Facebook’s terms and conditions, and photo-matching techniques would be used to prevent the image from being uploaded again. 
This hashing technique aims to streamline that considerably, stopping malicious parties from uploading the pictures in the first place. Users will need to first complete an online form on the eSafety website, then send the pictures they are worried about to Facebook via Messenger while the government department notified the social network about the incoming submission. A Facebook community operations analyst will then find the image and hash it. 
According to the company, after the image has been converted into a hash code, the social network will store the picture for a short amount of time before automatically deleting it. 
"These tools, developed in partnership with global safety experts, are one example of how we’re using new technology to keep people safe and prevent harm," said Facebook's head of global safety, Antigone Davis, in a statement. 
An NSPCC spokesperson told Alphr: “Children as well as adults can become victims of revenge porn as images they have shared can be used against them causing distress and humiliation. It is great that Facebook are looking at using photo-matching techniques to prevent an image from being uploaded again and this could be an effective way to fight non-consensual sharing of images which affects children and adults. 
“The process for users requesting removal of content needs to be simple and straightforward – it must be as easy to get content removed as it is to upload and share it. This initiative is a welcome step and has the potential to be rolled out across platforms.” 
While the pilot is limited to Australia, Facebook has said it is looking into other partners across different countries. Read more about: