Health News ‘SHE’S SIZE 16 IN A SIZE 6 DRESS’ Facebook post body-shaming news reporter Demetria Obilor for wearing a figure-hugging dress on air gets the internet in a frenzy 
Social media users called out Jan Shedd for body shaming after she hit out at traffic reporter Demetria Obilor By Emma Lake for Sun Online and Fox News 6th November 2017, 12:10 pm Updated: 6th November 2017, 1:43 pm Comments A WOMAN who trolled a news reporter for wearing a figure-hugging dress on air has whipped the internet into a frenzy. 
Social media users called out Jan Shedd for body-shaming after she hit out at traffic reporter Demetria Obilor in a now deleted Facebook post. Jan is big mad. Don’t be like Jan. pic.twitter.com/ytAKJHMXBy — Mother of Draggings (@fabfreshandfly) November 3, 2017 
Ms Shedd wrote: "Has anyone seen Channel 8's new morning traffic reporter? Her name is Demetria Obilor & she's a size 16/18 woman in a size 6 dress and she looks ridiculous. 
"I understand that when I watch Channel 8 I'm going to get biased reporting and political correctness, but clearly they have taken complete leave of their senses." 
The Facebook post went viral as people, including Grammy award-winning musician Chance the Rapper, jumped to Ms Obilor's defence. 
One user told Ms Obilor, who works for ABC’s WFAA in Dallas: "You are beautiful inside and out!" Social media users have come out in support of Demetria Obilor after a body-shaming Facebook post Traffic reporter Demetria has thanked those who spoke out in her support 
Others added: "KEEP SHINING SIS!", "Do your thing girl" and "Jan is big mad. Don’t be like Jan." 
Chance the Rapper added his name to supporters tweeting: "B G MAD." 
Ms Obilor responded to the online storm by posting a video to Twitter. 
She said: "The controversy, it's coming from people who aren't too happy with the way I look on television saying 'oh her body is too big for that dress', or 'she's too curvy', or 'her hair is unprofessional, it's crazy, we don't like it'. 
"A quick word to those people, this is the way that I'm built, this is the way I was born, I'm not going anywhere, so if you don't like it you have your options." Demetria ~ you are beautiful inside and out! #iamup https://t.co/uVuLbl2etc — Alexa Conomos (@alexaconomos) November 4, 2017 
Thanking supporters she added: "We don't have to put up with this and we're not going to." 
Ms Obilor followed the video with a tweet reading: "Thanking all of you for the love & support! 
"It's a big deal to me. We have to work together to create a more tolerant world. No compromise." 
A version of this story originally appeared on Fox News. MOST READ IN NEWS Mystery over dead girl's fundraising page as cops say DON'T donate FREAKY FOOD Nine ingredients that you've been eating without realising including BEAVER BUM COP STABBING Man arrested after police officer knifed in back outside Edinburgh College FORST OF NATURE Jackie made history by coming out in 1969 - here's the lowdown on her life HATE MAIL Young mum, 19, shocked after getting letter from the council saying: 'I hate you’ UTTER CRUELTY Older sister of tragic tot murdered by step-dad had teeth removed in care 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.'