Facebook wants users to share their nude photos with it as it fights revenge porn India Today Tech Last Updated: NOV 08, 2017 New Delhi Email Author 
You want Facebook to remove your racy photos that your disgruntled ex shared on the social media? Or want to ensure that you are not a victim of revenge porn? Well, share your nude photo first with Facebook. The social media site, in a bid to clamp down on revenge porn, is experimenting with a new method where it will get the nude photo from a user and then use that photo to identify other similar images of the person on its network. 
Sounds strange. Even somewhat ironical. But apparently the reason why Facebook wants your nude photo is technically sound. Right now the measure is part of a pilot project in Australia, which Facebook has announced in collaboration a government agency on e-safety headed by Julia Inman Grant. 
It is Grant who revealed the details of Facebook plan to ABC news channel in Australia. "We see many scenarios where maybe photos or videos were taken consensually at one point, but there was not any sort of consent to send the images or videos more broadly," she told the news channel. 
On Facebook's part getting a nude photo from a users, analysing it -- hashing it is the technical word -- will help the website pre-empt the abuse of users. Because it will already have a signature image of a user in its database -- hashed of course so probably not exactly a photo anymore -- the company will be able to block the revenge porn images of that user whenever they are shared. Also Read: Facebook pays over Rs 64000 to India woman for finding bug in Workplace 
According to reports, as part of the pilot project run in Australia, users will have to first fill an online form on the e-safety commissioner's website. After that they will be asked to submit a nude image, which will be then passed on to Facebook. The social media company will then put the image through its processing, create a signature -- hash -- and then using it in future will prevent uploading of any similar images on the social network for that one particular user. 
Currently the Facebook's new way to tackle revenge porn is going to be tested only in Australia although a Facebook spokesperson told the Guardian that it is exploring partnerships with other organisations in other countries to test something similar. 
For Facebook, revenge porn is a big issue. It is referred to incidents where disgruntled men or women share nude photos and videos of their ex partners on social media site after a breakup. In April, Facebook had unveiled new tools to tackle revenge porn. The company had said that it would start using a tool that will ensure that once a revenge porn photo is removed from the site, no longer people will be able to the same photo or a similar photo again. 
"These tools, developed in partnership with safety experts, are one example of the potential technology has to help keep people safe. Facebook is in a unique position to prevent harm, one of our five areas of focus as we help build a global community." Antigone Davis, Facebook's head of global safety had said at that time. For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @IndiaTodayTech and on Facebook at facebook.com/indiatodaytech For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in .ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.