Facebook mocked for banning robin redbreast Christmas card because of its ‘sexual adult content’ 
Artist Jackie Charley described the decision to block her greetings cards as 'hilarious' By Charlie Parker 12th November 2017, 1:11 pm Updated: 12th November 2017, 3:36 pm Comments FACEBOOK has been ridiculed for banning robin redbreast Christmas cards because of their "sexual" and "adult" content. 
The social media giant also blocked two other cards by the same artist decorated with seasonal paintings of a stag and a squirrel. Jackie Charley 'Sexual' robin redbreast. . . Traditional Christmas cards decorated with festive creatures were blocked by Facebook 
Writing on Facebook, artist Jackie Charley said: "Hilariously, Facebook has blocked my Christmas cards from becoming a product in my shop due to their shameful, sexual nature!" 
She then quoted a message she received from the company after she tried to list her cards on the site's shopping feature. 
"It looks like we didn't approve your item because we don't allow the sale of adult items or services (e.g. sexual enhancement items or adult videos)," the message read - according to the Ms Charley. 
The mother-of-two, as well as fans of her charming festive cards, have been left mystified by the bizarre decision. Jackie Charley A squirrel, stag and robin redbreast were flagged as 'sexual' by the social media company 
Mrs Charley, 52, from Denholm in the Scottish Borders, said: "These are lovely pieces of art that I just wanted people to enjoy at Christmas. How they could be considered inappropriate or sexual is beyond me." 
The artist relies on the money she earns from selling the cards online. She works from home so she can care for her husband, who has a serious medical condition, the Mail reports . 
She added: "I tried to upload the images five times, but this rejection message kept coming up. I was sure it was a mistake, but it wasn’t." 
Facebook has not responded to her complaints and has not yet removed the block, despite Mrs Charley repeatedly contacting them. Jackie Charley The festive greetings cards are clearly harmless but Facebook is yet to respond to the artist's pleas to list them on the site's shop 
Sources told the Mail the ban was probably an error and that they are investigating the issue. 
But the decision sparked outrage by customers, who took to the comment section of the artist's post to ask to buy the cards. 
"Absoflippinlutely appalling" commented one Facebook user. 
Another wrote: "Their actions are reminiscent of Trump! Unbelievable! They must be blind." 
Debi Webster, a friend of the artist, said: "Very funny facebook sees your beautiful cards as inappropriate when there is so much worse things shown on here". 
"They clearly should have gone to Specsavers!" commented another pal, Ian Oliver. Facebook test to give users additional context on the articles they see in News Feed MOST READ IN THE NEWS# COLDER THAN ARCTIC Britain faces THREE-WEEK freeze as temperatures plunge to -7C tonight AIRPORT ALERT Dramatic moment hero airport worker grabs smoking backpack as it EXPLODED 'I HATE YOU' Emmerdale star's anguish as she reveals she was sexually harassed on the Tube GRAVE RELIEF Sister of boy, 12, who drowned in 1947 finally finds mystery mourner SPIDER INVASION Dangerous false widows to invade Brit homes to escape cold this winter ‘TRAPPED’ Couple describe £200k battle with 'childish' neighbours over bitter parking row 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.'