Facebook Adds New PayPal Invoicing and Payment Options to Messenger Author share 
Facebook continues to add more features to encourage the use of their Marketplace option. This week, Facebook has announced another integration with PayPal which will enable users to send invoices for items direct through Messenger, streamlining the connection and payment process. 
This comes on the back of their recent announcement of PayPal as a peer-to-peer payment option in Messenger – the new integration builds on this functionality, providing a simplified payment option to further streamline the process. 
As you can see from the above sequence, users will be able to activate the new PayPal option within any Messenger thread. You then enter the relevant details and send the invoice, which the receiver can then click through to complete. Those signed into OneTouch will be able to checkout without having to re-authenticate with their password. 
Streamlining payments is a key area for Messenger, and for Facebook’s wider business ambitions with the app. As we noted recently , Facebook’s looking to follow the lead of Asian chat apps like WeChat into commerce, but one of WeChat’s key functionalities is streamlined payments, enabling users to conduct a much broader range of day to day functions directly within the app. 
Facebook's shown little interest in building their own payment framework, which is why their expanded deals with PayPal are particularly significant. Through this, users also get the assurance of dealing with PayPal, rather than Facebook direct, for payments, which could encourage more users to utilize the option. 
And focusing on Marketplace is a good start – Facebook says that there are some 18 million new listings being added to Marketplace each month in the US alone, and that searches within the tool have increased 3X since the beginning of 2017. Facebook recently added dedicated automotive and rentals sections to Marketplace to further expand the option, while they’ve also added eBay ‘Daily Deals’ which could hint at future brand integrations within the tool. 
Simplified payments could be a very big deal for Messenger, and Facebook more widely, especially in terms of changing the perception of Messenger from a simple messaging app to a tool through which people can conduct a range of business transactions. 
Expect Facebook to continue to expand the rollout, using Marketplace as a tool to help raise awareness of Messenger business. 
Follow Andrew Hutchinson on Twitter