“This is part of our ongoing effort to protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy,” Facebook wrote in a blog post Wednesday. (Dado Ruvic/REUTERS) NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Thursday, November 23, 2017, 3:59 AM 
Facebook announced Wednesday it would allow users to check whether they interacted with content linked to a Russian troll farm that reached millions of Americans. 
The social media company said it would be launching a portal by the end of the year to allow Facebook users to check whether they liked or followed content from the Internet Research Agency. 
The Internet Research Agency, which is based in St. Petersburg, allegedly used social media as part of a wider Russian plot to sow divisions within the U.S. ahead of the 2016 presidential elections. 
“This is part of our ongoing effort to protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy,” Facebook wrote in a blog post Wednesday. Divisive social media posts and ads were used as part of a wider Russian plot to sow divisions within the U.S. ahead of the 2016 presidential elections. (Jon Elswick/AP) 
But the social media platform doesn’t appear to be addressing the full reach of the Internet Research Agency’s content. Rather than listing each time the troll farm's posts appeared on a user's timeline, the portal will only show instances of active interaction. 
Facebook has also failed to address whether it will show people if they were targeted by Russia-paid political advertisements, which reached as many as 150 million users on Facebook and Instagram. 
Rep. Adam Schiff, a California Democrat, called the move a “very positive step” in a statement. Tech companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google, were initially dismissive of Russia’s threat, but they all pledged to make improvements amid pressure from lawmakers. (Aaron Bernstein/REUTERS) 
But he emphasized that he’s still looking for more, including a joint report by the companies “on how Russia used these platforms to sow discord and influence the election.” 
The companies were initially dismissive of Russia’s threat, but they all pledged to make improvements amid pressure from lawmakers. 
News of Facebook’s new portal comes weeks after Twitter announced the launch of its “Advertising Transparency Center,” where users can see how they are being targeted. 
With News Wire Services