WordPress.com DISCLAIMER This Site is only provided for educational purposes and as a public resource for general information about Shawn E. Tuma. This site, or anything provide through this site, does not constitute legal advice and is not intended to constitute advertising or solicitation for legal services. Nothing in this Site should be construed by you as a source of legal advice. You should not rely or act upon the contents of this Site without seeking advice from your own attorney. Use and access to this Site or any materials or information provided on this Site does not create an attorney-client relationship between you and Shawn E. Tuma, or the law firm at which Shawn E. Tuma may be employed. Any information submitted by you to Shawn E. Tuma via this Site, an email, or any form of social media communication will not be considered an attorney-client communication or otherwise be treated as confidential or privileged in the absence of an executed Engagement Agreement between you and Shawn E. Tuma. The views expressed on this site are those of the author alone and not his employer. Google Shawn Tuma's current employer is Scheef & Stone, L.L.P. Scheef & Stone’s offices are strategically located in Collin County and Dallas County, its attorneys have convenient access to the entire Dallas / Fort Worth Metroplex including state and federal courts in Collin County, Denton County, Dallas County, and Tarrant County, which are all courts in which Scheef & Stone handles cases (as well as across the nation). Regarding the United States District Courts in Texas, Collin County is located in the Eastern District of Texas yet is only minutes away from the Northern District of Texas. Tuma’s experience in and familiarity with these courts, as well as his close proximity to their courthouses, permits him to serve as local counsel for other attorneys who have a need for local counsel because they have cases in the United States District Court Eastern District of Texas, United States District Court Northern District of Texas, and the County and District Courts of Collin County, Texas. Copyright © Shawn E. Tuma 2016 
Cybersecurity Business Law Blog 
Shawn E. Tuma www.shawnetuma.com 
Shawn Tuma is a partner at Scheef & Stone, L.L.P., a full service business law firm with offices in Dallas and Frisco, Texas. 
Scheef & Stone, L.L.P. helps clients with all civil matters including a full range of transaction, litigation, technology, and general counseling legal services. What makes Scheef & Stone, L.L.P. unique for a mid-size firm is its expertise in information security, computer fraud, privacy, and cyber law – what it refers to as Business Cyber Risk. 
Shawn Tuma is a business litigation attorney who handles a full range of business disputes ranging from negotiation, mediation, arbitration, and trial of legal disputes involving businesses. He is experienced in a full array of lawsuits involving companies from the basics of issues like breach of contract, tortious interference, breach of fiduciary duty, and fraud to more particularized issues such as intellectual property / IP law issues like litigation involving patents, trade and service marks, copyright, unfair competition and trade secrets, as well as the new Texas Uniform Trade Secrets Act (TUTSA). Tuma’s expertise really sets him apart when it comes to the highly particularized areas of law like digital information law, cyber law, computer law, Internet law, information law, data law, or any other variation on that area which includes things such as the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), Wiretap Act, Stored Communications Act (SCA), social media law, data breach, and data breach responses. It is not uncommon for Tuma to serve as either an “off the pleadings” consultant to other attorneys as well as local counsel in the United States District Court Eastern District of Texas or the District Courts of Collin County, Texas for cases involving these issues. Meta