$155 Summary: To keep the article short and sweet for readers, both the EPS and revenue estimates for Facebook and Apple look very similar to the trends seen in the Technology companies reporting last week. Worries over regulation of Facebook's business and production concerns over the iPhone X haven't shown up in the estimate trends for either of the two tech giants. These are obviously two different companies at two very different points in their secular growth cycles. Here are some points to ponder as you await earnings releases this week: Facebook is earlier in its secular growth life-cycle than Apple This is evidenced by the fact that Facebook pays no dividend and is currently repurchasing no shares, somewhat surprising given that as a social media (software) company, it is using the stock as currency for acquisitions. Still it demonstrates good discipline that Facebook isn't repo'ing shares at these valuations. Does Facebook have a meaningful competitor? Certainly, if you look across all of social media, you can make the case; but the social network giant stands alone in terms of its network ability. The real strength of Facebook's model is that it is in the earliest stages of monetizing both its user network and its advertising model. Here are earlier articles written in 2012 (stock trading in $20s-$30s) and more recently in early 2017, with the stock trading near $120. Clients' lowest cost basis on FB is $19.91 from November 2012, and comprises a 3.3% position in client accounts, versus its 1.9% weighting in the S&P 500. Apple is a totally different story relative to Facebook - if you would study Apple's revenue and EPS history, the company has taken on a "growth cyclical" nature, with revenue and EPS rising sharply in the 12 months following a major iPhone launch and then settling into more mundane "mid-single-digit' EPS and revenue growth during the "off years" of the iPhone launch. Apple is a more mature company than Facebook, as evidenced by Apple's regular and substantial return of capital as the company's investment opportunities diminish over time. The other aspect of Apple's business is that as the iPhone matures and the world is split between what is almost an oligopolistic competitive structure between the iPhone and Android, and as operating margins narrow as a result of this competition, Apple will need to find additional revenue streams to move the needle of an $850-billion company. Apple Services can help do that, Apple's push into Enterprise or the business market could help sustain that growth, but my own opinion is that the Apple Watch, with its potential to be able to monitor the wearer's health metrics, could be a huge winner in the Healthcare vertical. That may seem years away, but Apple's long-range plan of transmitting vital personal information to healthcare professionals might be more real "vision" than many people think. Apple is a 3.8% position in client accounts, and has now had two nasty corrections in the stock, late 2013 and 2014, and then again in late 2015 and 2016, with each correction lasting about 12-15 months. I do think this is the "new normal" for Apple, as Tim Cook and the management team push into other opportunities to try and offset the iPhone cyclicality. Conclusion: Facebook looks attractive as a GARP (growth-at-a-reasonable-price) stock while Apple never really looks expensive on a valuation basis, and would be a much bigger beneficiary of US tax reform with cash repatriation than Facebook would. What surprised me about the valuation table when looking at Facebook was the 25x P/E ratio, for what is expected 25% "average" growth over the next 4 years, on even faster revenue growth. The whole point of this post was to demonstrate that - as of today - given the trends in forward EPS and revenue estimates, and noting how the estimates have been used in the past - forward estimates are not indicating a problem with either stock. Remember though, these are forward "estimates" and that market corrections can result in corrections in individual stocks, even when the fundamentals remain robust. Thanks for reading and be careful out there. Disclosure: I am/we are long FB, AAPL. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving compensation for it (other than from Seeking Alpha). I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article. About this article: Expand