Facebook has bigger problems to address than its role in the US election Kevin Roose twitter TWEET More 
For months, Facebook's headquarters in Menlo Park, California, has been in crisis mode, furiously attempting to contain the damage stemming from its role in last year's presidential campaign . The company has mounted an all-out defence campaign before this week's congressional hearings on election interference in 2016, hiring three outside communications firms, taking out full-page newspaper ads, and mobilising top executives, including Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, to beat back accusations that it failed to prevent Russia from manipulating the outcome of the election. 
No other predicament in Facebook's 13-year history has generated this kind of four-alarm response. But while the focus on Russia is understandable, Facebook has been much less vocal about the abuse of its services in other parts of the world, where the stakes can be much higher than an election. 
This past week, my colleagues at The New York Times reported on the ethnic cleansing of Rohingya Muslims , an ethnic minority in Myanmar that has been subjected to brutal violence and mass displacement. Violence against the Rohingya has been fuelled, in part, by misinformation and anti-Rohingya propaganda spread on Facebook, which is used as a primary news source by many people in the country. Doctored photos and unfounded rumours have gone viral on Facebook, including many shared by official government and military accounts. 
The information war in Myanmar illuminates a growing problem for Facebook. The company successfully connected the world to a constellation of real-time communication and broadcasting tools, then largely left it to deal with the consequences. Related Articles Facebook is taking Australia more seriously 
"In a lot of these countries, Facebook is the de facto public square," said Cynthia Wong, a senior internet researcher for Human Rights Watch. "Because of that, it raises really strong questions about Facebook needing to take on more responsibility for the harms their platform has contributed to." 
In Myanmar, the rise in anti-Rohingya sentiment coincided with a huge boom in social media use that was partly attributable to Facebook itself. In 2016, the company partnered with MPT, the state-run telecom company, to give subscribers access to its Free Basics program. Free Basics includes a limited suite of internet services, including Facebook, that can be used without counting toward a cellphone data plan. As a result, the number of Facebook users in Myanmar has skyrocketed to more than 30 million today from 2 million in 2014. Advertisement 
"We work hard to educate people about our services, highlight tools to help them protect their accounts and promote digital literacy," said Debbie Frost, a Facebook spokeswoman. "To be more effective in these efforts, we are working with civil society, safety partners, and governments an approach we have found to be particularly important and effective in countries where people are rapidly coming online and experiencing the internet for the first time through a mobile phone." You will now receive updates from Business AM Newsletter Business AM Newsletter 
Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox. By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy . 'Everything shared on the phone is regarded as true' 
In India, where internet use has also surged in recent years, WhatsApp, the popular Facebook-owned messaging app, has been inundated with rumours, hoaxes and false stories. In May, the Jharkhand region in Eastern India was destabilised by a viral WhatsApp message that falsely claimed that gangs in the area were abducting children. The message incited widespread panic and led to a rash of retaliatory lynchings, in which at least seven people were beaten to death. A local filmmaker, Vinay Purty, told the Hindustan Times that many of the local villagers simply believed the abduction myth was real, since it came from WhatsApp. SHARE