Russians Posing as Black Activists on Facebook Is More Than Fake News Beyond concerns about Russian-sponsored ads, for example, the tech companies also must contend with a flood of other content, coming from all corners of the globe, in a country where freedom of expression is valued and protected. Take too ham-fisted an approach to monitoring political posts, and they risk being accused of, as Republican Sen. Ted Cruz put it Tuesday, putting their "thumb on the scale of political debate." But turn a blind eye to political chatter, and they risk allowing malicious networks to disrupt democratic elections. While Facebook bore the brunt of Senators' questioning, Twitter revealed some staggering statistics about Russia's organic reach on its platform last year. In just two and a half months, Russian bot accounts tweeted 1.4 million times, yielding 288 million impressions. The fact that such coordinated campaigns went unchecked underscores the value Twitter has put on free speech. The exchange over the potential use of shell companies to purchase ads showed how loopholes that have allowed dark money to flow into the American political system are magnified online. Sussing out who exactly paid for a political television ad backed by a Super PAC isn't easy. But the sheer scale of ads purchased on platforms like Facebook makes it practically impossible. Facebook and other platforms used their technological prowess during the campaign to identify malicious actors and advertisers that might be connected to foreign entities, but those tools can miss the mark. That's how Facebook ended up selling political ads to Russian entities that paid for the ads in Russian rubles, which ought to be an obvious red flag. That proved a particularly sensitive issue for Democratic Sen. Al Franken, who challenged Stretch to state definitively that Facebook would not sell political ads to anyone paying in a foreign currency. The Federal Election Campaign Act, after all, bans foreign financing of American elections. Stretch declined, arguing that currency is just one of many signals the company will take into consideration when assessing an advertiser's legitimacy. "We’re not going to permit political advertising by foreign actors," he said. "Our goal is to make sure we’re addressing all forms of abuse." "My goal is for you to think through this stuff a little bit better," Franken retorted. Complicating matters, many members of Congress investigating these issues appear to be unclear about precisely what these companies do and how they do it. That surfaced in questions posed by Democratic Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Sheldon Whitehouse on the topic of voter-suppression tactics. Blumenthal showed the committee a widely circulated tweet showing comedian Aziz Ansari holding a Photoshopped sign claiming Americans could vote from home. Blumenthal and Whitehouse pressed Twitter's Edgett to tell them exactly how many people tried to vote by text, as the tweet suggested people do. Edgett said Twitter would have no way of knowing the number, which would require phone companies to analyze the private texts of their customers. "Let me request that you endeavor as best you can do get us this information," Blumenthal insisted. That leaves us with tech companies that woke up to this threat far too late attempting to explain themselves to investigators who, in some cases, fundamentally misunderstand the platforms' ability to address it. It's little wonder then that those solutions Congress seeks are proving to be elusive.