Matthew Field 17 November 2017 • 3:15pm 
F acebook has restored Unilad's page hours after deleting the viral news website, which has more than 34 million likes, with the social media giant stating the page had been banned for violating its posting policy. 
Unilad confirmed to the Telegraph that the page had been deleted by Facebook. The original page has since been restored, although Facebook has given no reason as to why the page was temporarily banned. 
The page was down from the early hours of Friday morning, with one user claiming they managed to get the page deleted over posts about the death of US rapper Gustav Åhr, known as Lil Peep . 
Unilad is known for posting viral videos and news stories, which has seen it grow into one of the most popular Facebook media pages, recording three billion views per month. 
A second Unilad Facebook page has since been created. Users trying to reach the website's old Facebook page were met with the message: "This page isn't available The link you followed may be broken, or the page may have been removed." 
According to one Twitter user, the page had been reported due to user comments over the death of Lip Peep. "To be fair wasn't Unilad's fault," they said, "but the comments on the post were disgusting. Inhumane. Someone died." Unilad appears to have been blocked on Facebook Credit: jmmusic7/Twitter 
M anchester-based Unilad was founded in 2012 by student Alex Partridge and has since grown into a major internet media brand with a reported value of £40m. It is now run by co-owners Liam Harrington and Sam Bentley. 
U nilad employs more than 60 people, with Facebook understood to be the site's main source of revenue. For those interested in all things FB video - Unilad's main page (with around 34 million likes) has been taken down... — David Knowles (@djknowles22) November 17, 2017 
T he site became known for posting humorous and often controversial material, with posts such as "Sexual Mathematics" branded as sexist. It has since moved to post a mixture of serious content and viral videos and runs spin-off pages, such as Unilad Tech. 
Facebook has been approached for comment. Related Topics