Facebook is looking to roll out its suicide prevention software worldwide Updated November 28, 2017 14:06:49 Map: United States 
Facebook wants to start monitoring your social media feed for signs of suicidal thoughts. 
It's been testing the software in the US for the past nine months, but has announced today it will now be rolled out more broadly. 
Let's take a closer look at the program and why you will play an important role. The software is designed to look for users who may be contemplating suicide 
Facebook says it does that by scanning Facebook posts and live videos for words and phrases that could signal suicidal intent . If you or anyone you know needs help: Lifeline on 13 11 14 Suicide Call Back Service on 1300 659 467 Beyond Blue on 1300 22 46 36 Headspace on 1800 650 890 
In tech terms, that means pattern recognition. 
But the system also monitors how you respond to those posts. 
For example, according to Facebook, comments like "Are you OK?" and "Can I help?" are particularly useful for identifying problem posts. Users are then directed to places where they can get help 
Once the software has identified a user who may be considering suicide, it alerts a team of specialists who are trained in dealing with suicide and self-harm. 
They're the ones who are currently tasked with reviewing posts that are manually reported by users. 
That team can then alert the authorities if necessary or point the user to support services , such as helplines, where they can get advice. 
Users can also see suggested ways to reach out to friends. How long does that process take? 
Facebook hasn't said, but the company's vice-president of product management Guy Rosen said speed was a priority. 
"Speed really matters. We have to get help to people in real time," he said. 
To accelerate the process, Facebook said it was using artificial intelligence and automation where possible, but as we know, context is critical online and words can be easily misconstrued. 
That's something that Facebook says it's working on. 
"We continue to work on this technology to increase accuracy and avoid false positives before our team reviews," Mr Rosen said. So when will it be rolled out in Australia? 
It's not yet clear. 
Facebook hasn't said where they'll be rolling out the software next, but it says the aim is to eventually have it operating worldwide. 
It will not, however, be rolled out in the European Union (EU) due to "sensitivities". 
Reuters asked Mr Rosen why that was, but he declined to discuss the issue. What else is being done to combat suicide online? 
Other tech firms also try to prevent suicides. 
For example, Google's search engine displays the phone number for a suicide hotline in response to certain searches. 
But it isn't just suicide that is a problem online. 
Facebook also looks for suspicious conversations online between children and adult sexual predators. 
But Ryan Calo, a University of Washington law professor who writes about tech, said it could be difficult for tech firms to justify scanning conversations. 
"Once you open the door, you might wonder what other kinds of things we would be looking for," Calo said. 
ABC/Reuters