Facebook will build out all six phases of its Los Lunas data center, the company announced. Photo courtesy Facebook – Managing Editor, Albuquerque Business First Nov 14, 2017, 12:02am MST Facebook is announcing that it plans to construct a total of six buildings at its billion-dollar data center in Los Lunas, tripling the company's original investment in the project. The addition of four more data center buildings to the two already announced represents more than a $1 billion total investment, the Menlo Park, California-based company said. The expansion will support thousands of jobs over the next few years, Gov. Susana Martinez 's office said. Facebook had already previously announced it was building a second phase of the project. The build out of the facilities will go through 2023. Tuesday's announcement adds 1.8 million square feet for a total of 2.8 million square feet. Facebook and Gov. Susana Martinez have scheduled a press conference later Tuesday to announce the news. For the data center's first two phases, Facebook has said its total capital expenditures will be $500 million. “This expansion is good news for New Mexico and I’m proud to continue building on our strong partnership with Facebook as they create jobs and grow their investment in our state,” said Martinez in a statement. “This shows even more encouraging momentum, and we’ll continue using our powerful tools and reforms to compete for more jobs and investment.” Facebook representatives were not available for comment at the time of publication. Albuquerque Economic Development President Gary Tonjes estimates there will be between 800 and 1,000 construction workers on site every day for the next six years. “Facebook’s continued expansion in Los Lunas proves that our community has what it takes to attract world-class opportunities," said Tonjes in a statement. "New Mexico has a storied history of innovation, and this is project is an important chapter in that book. The company’s commitment to hiring locally, building a sustainable operation with renewable energy sources, and creating a state-of-the-art facility with the best technology is a major win for the Albuquerque metro area. We are proud to be a partner in bringing this project to life, and we wish the company the absolute best as they move forward with operations here.” He said more than 80 percent of construction workers currently working on the site are New Mexico residents. Facebook's announcement also means the company will take advantage of the incentives the village of Los Lunas and the state of New Mexico have rolled out for Facebook. Those include an industrial revenue bond approved by the Los Lunas Village Council for Facebook. With that bond, Facebook will buy up to $30 billion in industrial revenue bonds over a 30-year period, according to the village. David Buchholtz, an attorney with Rodey Law Firm who worked with Facebook on the industrial revenue bond agreement with the village of Los Lunas, confirmed to Albuquerque Business First in July that the company's IRB agreement with the village is the “largest dollar amount associated with an IRB" in New Mexico if all six potential phases of the project are completed. In addition to the data center, Public Service Co. of New Mexico is financing a $45 million solar farm to provide 100 percent of the project's power. Albuquerque-based Affordable Solar is building the solar farm for PNM. Timeline: Facebook's first year in New Mexico See what Facebook has been up to since it chose the Village of Los Lunas for its first New Mexico data center.