Nov 7, 2017 @ 09:40 PM Facebook Asks Australia For Nude Pics To Test 'Revenge Porn' Defense Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Shutterstock 
Facebook is working on a new way to rid the platform of 'revenge porn,' and giving it a first whirl in Australia (where, incidentally, Domino's Pizza and McDonald's have also experimented with unusual deliveries ); s pecifically, they'll be asking for nudes. 
The Australia Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) reported this week that Facebook will be testing out a new preemptive method for blocking the unauthorized distribution of nude photos on the site, and (they hope) with the help of Australian Facebook users. According to ABC, Facebook has partnered with the country's e-Safety Commissioner to develop the program, aimed at protecting not just extant victims of vindictive image-sharing, but also potential ones. 
In short, the test program would allow users who are worried their intimate photos might be shared on the site to upload such photos to Messenger, and algorithmically assess-and-tag or "hash" their content for future reference. Facebook's photo and face-matching algorithms would then be on the lookout for those photos should they appear elsewhere on the platform, according to the plan. 
See also: This Free App Is Helping Women Tackle Domestic Violence In Iran And Worldwide 
As the The Verge explained, "This works only if you’re in possession of the original file, but it would seem to bypass any attempts from a malicious third party to alter the metadata by analyzing and tagging the actual content of the image or video." 
Facebook previously implemented a photo-matching tool to fight revenge porn back in April, but designed to work after the fact. Under that system, photos that have been thoroughly identified as unauthorized for use theoretically get flagged for removal if they're later shared on Messenger. 
Julie Inman Grant, e-Safety Commissioner for Australia, commented to ABC, "We see many scenarios where maybe photos or videos were taken consensually at one point, but there was not any sort of consent to send the images or videos more broadly." 
See also: Teen Childbirth Linked To Greater Heart Risks Later On Shon Handrahan appears in court Tuesday, March 17, 2015, in Farmington, Utah. Authorities say the 31-year-old sent nude pictures of his estranged wife to her acquaintances in 2012; in 2015, he pleaded guilty to two felony counts of distributing pornographic material. (Credit: AP Photo/Rick Bowmer, Pool) 
Grant also stressed that, despite most everyone's likely gut reaction to the plan, the cybersecurity tactic would not be counterintuitive. 
"They're not storing the image. They're storing the link and using artificial intelligence and other photo-matching technologies," she said. "So if somebody tried to upload that same image, which would have the same digital footprint or hash value, it will be prevented from being uploaded.” 
However, a small number of Facebook staff will need to actually take a peek at the photos. As The Verge reported, they would be "specially trained representatives," who can confirm what the photos contain. Facebook security chief Alex Stamos commented on Twitter, “[We] are trying to balance [the risks] against the serious, real-world harm that occurs every day when people (mostly women) can't stop [non-consensual intimate images] from being posted.” 
See also: Scammers Used My Article And Montel's Name To Hock 'CBD' For Months; Now It's Lawsuit Time 
In order to participate in the test program, Australian Facebook users will need to fill out an online form with the country's e-Safety office explaining the problem. Afterward, they'll need to send the photos in question to themselves using Messenger, upon which Facebook gets notified of the submission and can go about confirming and hashing the photos for detection in its system; after they've self-sent their photos, users can immediately delete them from their Messenger history. 
As The Guardian pointed out, some estimates have suggested that close to 4% of U.S. internet users have been victims of revenge porn, including 10% of women under 30. 
In Australia, closer to one in five women aged 18-45 are victims of that abuse, Grant told ABC, including one in four Indigenous Australians. 
[Updated 11/9/17 7:00pm EST to include Facebook's clarification] 
Janet Burns covers tech, culture, and other fun stuff from Brooklyn, NY. She also hosts the cannabis news podcast The Toke .