The Nigerian SME Council brings together Facebook Africa's SME team and Nigerian business owners from a range of industries, in a partnership designed to provide better digital tools for business and customer growth. © rvlsoft via 123RF Facebook has launched the Nigerian SME Council, the first to launch on the continent as part of its ongoing commitment to help support small and medium sized businesses throughout Africa.
Made up of a combination 15 vibrant start-ups and established SMEs from a range of industries, each business brings with them a wealth of unique experiences in understanding and embracing digital and mobile strategies, as well as reaching the Nigerian customer – making them ideally positioned to offer support to other companies who need it.
Speaking at the launch, Abi Williams, Facebook’s SMB Sales Manager, EMEA said: “Small businesses form the backbone of most of the thriving economies in the world, driving sustainable growth and creating jobs, and those in Nigeria are no different.
“Facebook is strategically positioned to help SME’s grow their businesses, and with a vibrant SME sector, Nigeria was a natural choice in launching our very first SME Council on the African continent. With 35 million people in other countries connected to a Nigerian business on Facebook, the global market has never been closer for Nigerian SMEs.”
The Nigerian SME Council:
The Nigerian SME Council is made up of 15 small-to-medium sized business owners in varying sectors and locations across Nigeria, including Lagos, Abuja and Enugu and Kano. Council members will meet a minimum of twice a year with Facebook and Instagram teams to discuss successes and challenges, business ideas and solutions. Nigerian SME Council Members include: Paylater , DigitxPlus , Wakanow , Afro Foods & Spice Nigeria , The Legit Way Out , Easyshop Easycook , Hush’D , One Stop Baby Shop Nigeria , Mamalette , Bombay to Beirut, GIGM.com , , Naphtali Party Rentals , Ìkòkò , and STM Magical Creations Ltd .
The Nigerian SME Council joins 10 SME Councils across the globe, including in: North America, Ireland, UK, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden, Poland, India and Brazil.