Facebook to disclose details about political advertisers 30 October, 2017, 09:52 | Author: Sammy Rose 
Under fire for failing to detect and stop Russian-funded political ads during the 2016 election, Facebook announced new rules for advertising on its platform. 
On Friday, Facebook said that it would take steps to make advertising more transparent after it was revealed that Russian operatives bought ads to stoke racial tensions in a bid to influence voting patterns in the 2016 USA presidential election. 
"When it comes to advertising on Facebook , people should be able to tell who the advertiser is and see the ads they're running, especially for political ads", a blog post by Facebook Vice President of Ads Rob Goldman said. 
Facebook hasn't said whether the stricter rules for political advertisements will apply only to ads that directly discuss a candidate, or if they will apply more broadly to any ad that mentions a political issue. 
Under current US law, digital platforms like Facebook , Google and Twitter aren't required to disclose who buys political ads the way more traditional media are required to like television and radio. 
"We are starting with federal elections in the U.S., and will progress from there to additional contests and elections in other countries and jurisdictions", Goldman added. Has Ohio State earned a spot in the top four? Let's take a look at what the numbers are for all the top 25 games, as well as a few other interesting contests. Despite a loss to Iowa State (that looks better with each week), the Sooners likely won't be in the top four. Cilic, Del Potro win at Swiss Indoors, will meet in semis Federer could not serve out the set though and was broken as Del Potro took it to a tiebreak. As for del Potro, the end to his season has been spectacular. 
The company added that it was also building machine learning tools to identify and check political advertisers and entities who do not proactively and willingly disclose themselves, committing itself to " better ensure transparency and accountability in our advertising products". 
" Facebook does not use your phone's microphone to inform ads or to change what you see in News Feed", it said. 
Federal election ads in this historical database will be accompanied by information on the total amount spent, how many times the ad was viewed, and demographic information about the audience that viewed it. The company said it also will allow users to click on a button called "View ads" in order to see all ads created by a specific page. 
The new efforts, which Facebook announced Friday, will be tested in Canada in November and go into effect in the United States next summer ahead of the 2018 midterms. 
Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said in a separate post this is more transparency than required for other media. Marketing spots will have to be linked to a Facebook page running them. "Testing in one market allows us to learn the various ways an entire population uses the feature at a scale that allows us to learn and iterate". Recommended: Attacking the Centre she said that "They [the Centre] are interfering in the people's rights and privacy". However, it also observed that "this way Centre would start challenging the laws passed by the States". 30 October 2017 A B-2 stealth bomber capable of carrying out nuclear strikes on North Korea has flown a mission over undisclosed parts of the Asia Pacific region. 30 October 2017 Armour shoots 68, earns 1st career win at Sanderson Farms Armour first joined the PGA Tour in 2007, but lost his card a couple of years later and returned for a stint on the Web.com Tour. Jonathan Randolph, a MS native playing his home course, mounted a charge with seven birdies in his first nine holes. 30 October 2017 Steelers Hold Off Matthew Stafford, Lions Behind JuJu Smith-Schuster's Big Night Roethlisberger is, too, because he has a reliable receiver to go to when Antonio Brown is covered and Martavis Bryant is pouting. And it came from the 3-yard line after the Steelers' defense punished the Lions on one of its three impressive goal line stops. 30 October 2017 Kneeling across the field on the San Francisco 49ers sideline were Reid, Eli Harold, Adrian Colbert and Marquise Goodwin. Per Jeremy Stahl of Slate , Kaepernick was told he had no role in these meetings. 30 October 2017 Authorities said medications and liquor were not factors in the mishap, which stays under scrutiny by the Michigan State Police. The six others occupants of the buggy were transported to area hospitals where they were listed in critical condition. 30 October 2017 Under Saudi law, a male family member must grant permission for a woman to travel, study or engage in a any activities in public. In September, Saudi Arabia announced that it would allow women to drive starting from June 2018. 30 October 2017 We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website and bring you more relevant advertising. Jenny Gunn got two wickets in the final over as Australia finished their innings on 257 for nine. 30 October 2017 Cowboys 'Feed Zeke,' Capitalize on Mistakes to Beat Redskins Signed to fill in for injured kicker Dan Bailey , Mike Nugent was wide left from 49 yards on his first attempt for the Cowboys. Orlando Scandrick returned it almost the length of the field, and the Cowboys claimed a one-point halftime lead. 30 October 2017 During the Colts-Bengals game on Sunday, he would take time away from preparing to throw some shade at the rookie. Bell ripped Mixon on Twitter for supposedly mimicking his running style and his first down celebration. 30 October 2017 The acid-tongued Duterte often curses critics, including former US President Barack Obama, and is known to shun formal protocols. Duterte says China is the best country that can calm down Kim. 30 October 2017 Despite rumors that the players would remove the Texans decals from their helmets, they ended up leaving them on. Rapoport also says the Seahawks have been in talks about acquiring Houston Texans left tackle Duane Brown . Popular