Hope you had a good Thursday, MarketWatchers! Here are the day’s top stories:
Personal Finance Sean Parker on Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook: ‘You’re exploiting vulnerability in human psychology’ The founder of Napster had some stinging words for Facebook’s CEO. 

My sister took care of our mother for 10 years — shouldn’t she be entitled to her house? This family disagrees over what will happen to their mother’s home. 

These colleges use a loophole to make billions off the GI Bill A new analysis finds that for-profit college revenue from veterans and servicemember benefits have soared. 

22-year-old pro golfer’s contract requires him to meet 75 corporate executives a year Maverick McNealy, son of the former CEO of Sun Microsystems, is being courted by several sponsors . 

Facebook now wants to help find your apartment The site is gearing itself toward corporate listings . 

What to do when you replace an employee who suddenly left under a cloud Christopher Plummer will take over a role originally given to Kevin Spacey in an upcoming film. 

Why Taylor Swift’s decision to sell her latest album on CD is good for fans — despite the expense Streaming is outpacing CD sales, but Taylor Swift is holding out once again . 

House Republicans say they will restore the adoption tax credit Lawmakers originally said eliminating the credit would save the government $13,570 per adopted child. 

Tony Robbins: This is a mutual fund investor’s biggest enemy Costly fund fees hurt investor returns . Here’s what you can do about it 

Even a small amount of alcohol is now related to a higher risk of cancer A new study recommends public education about the risks between alcohol abuse and certain types of cancer 

Elsewhere on MarketWatch Highlights of the Senate’s tax-reform plan Highlights of the Senate’s tax reform plan, as released Thursday by the finance committee . 

Tax reform advances a step as House committee passes bill The House Ways and Committee approved a sweeping bill to overhaul the nation’s tax code on Thursday, setting up a vote by the full House and taking a major step on a key Republican legislative priority. 

Mortgage rates slide to 4-week low as tax overhaul stumbles Home loan rates stumbled along with bond yields as radical tax reform began to seem less certain . 

U.S. has spent more than $4 trillion on wars since 9/11 A report from Brown University’s Watson Institute says conflicts in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and Syria have cost $4.3 trillion and could reach $5.6 trillion by the end of 2018.
Haven’t subscribed yet to MarketWatch’s daily personal finance newsletter? Sign up here .