Facebook Admits Russian Ads Sought to Undermine Trump After the Election Wait, wasn’t Hillary Clinton the only victim??? 11.1.2017 Trey Sanchez 
According to Facebook, the Russian ads posted to the social media giant were just as much aimed at Donald Trump as they were Hillary Clinton. In deposition before Congress, Facebook General Counsel Colin Stretch said the company found ads aimed at undermining President Trump long after the 2016 election. 
"We saw this concerted effort to sow division and discord,” said Stretch. “In the wake of the election – and now-President Trump's election – we saw a lot of activity targeted at fomenting discord about the validity of his election.” 
Up until this admission, most of the attention has gone to the negative ads directed at Mrs. Clinton as she fought for the narrative that she lost because of this manipulation. However, now it’s clear the entire system of governance in America was in Russia’s sites, as the Daily Mail explains: 
Testimony from Facebook reveals that posts generated by a Russian outfit may have reached as many as 126 million users. Pages created by Russia's Internet Research Agency generated 80,000 posts on 120 pages between January 2015 and August 2017. 
Possible views reached into the millions after people 'liked' the posts and shared them. 
Stretch added, “That foreign actors hiding behind fake accounts abused our platform and other Internet services to try to sow division and discord – and to try to undermine our election process – is an assault on democracy, and it violates all of our values.” 
And of all people to level the most logical question of all to the social media giant was Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) who asked: “How did Facebook – which prides itself on being able to process billions of data points – somehow not make the connection that electoral ads paid for in rubles were coming from Russia? Those are two data points. American political ads and Russian money – rubles. How could you not connect those two dots?” 
Perhaps Facebook was too happy with Trump’s election being undermined to care. Issues