Facebook Reports $10.3 Billion in Revenues
Advertising served up on smartphones or tablets accounted for about 88 percent of revenue taken in from marketing messages in the quarter, Facebook reported. The latest data on Instagram is on top of the estimated 126 million Americans exposed to Facebook posts from Russian entities seeking to create divisions during the election campaign.
On Tuesday, Facebook's general counsel Colin Stretch testified to Congress that 126 million USA users may have seen fake news or political advertisements bought by Russian Federation in 2016.
"Russians tried to use our tools to sow mistrust".
The UK newspaper said the disclosure could lead to Facebook coming under increased scrutiny about the accuracy of its data and it comes as the company, along with other social media giants, came under pressure this week to explain whether their platforms spread fake news during the USA presidential election. That's good for business, he said, since Facebook users don't want fake news, hate speech or bullying. This includes the already growing video sharing activities on Facebook's Instagram and WhatsApp, and content consuming through the recently-launched Watch tab, where users can watch shows like on traditional television.
The Menlo Park , California, company's revenue grew 47 per cent to $10.33 billion.
Israeli Hit by Syrian Gunfire; IDF Prepares to Enter Bloody Civil War
The Syrian army and Kurdish-led forces backed by the USA are now racing to take the rest of the oil-rich eastern province. Speaking from London, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said "we safeguard our borders.
The number of employees working at Facebook has skyrocketed during the past year.
Facebook Inc. said its third-quarter net income was $1.59 per share, topping expectations. "We will continue to invest aggressively in the many opportunities we see ahead", Facebook CFO David Wehner said during an earnings call with analysts.
The average revenue per daily active user reached $7.51 compared to $5.95 a year ago showing a 26 per cent increase. Monthly Active Users were 2.07 billion for September 30, 2017, an increase of 16%.
As it turns out, contained in Facebook's 2.07 billion users per month (1.4 billion daily active users) are around 207 million duplicate accounts - more users than Snapchat has in total and early two thirds of Twitter's users.
The company says it's getting better at targeting ads at its users and that's helped push up how much it charges for ads.