Senators aim to halt bogus political ads on Facebook 
Similarly, Twitter's Edgett said the company identified 36,746 accounts that between Sept. 1 and Nov. 15, 2016, generated approximately 1.4 million automated, election-related tweets, which collectively received approximately 288 million impressions or views. 
But Stretch and Edgett tried to downplay the impact of this activity on their platforms. Stretch said the content shared through Facebook was a tiny fraction of what users see every day in their Facebook news feeds. 
Edgett made the same argument. 
"We determined that the number of accounts we could link to Russia and that were tweeting election-related content was small in comparison to the total number of accounts on our platform during the relevant time period," he said in his testimony. "Similarly, the volume of automated, election-related tweets that originated from those accounts was small in comparison to the overall volume of election-related activity on our platform, with significantly fewer impressions as compared to a typical election-related tweet." In the fight 
Still, the companies, which initially dismissed the importance of fake news spreading unchecked, said they're committed to ensuring this type of activity is stopped. 
"When it comes to the 2016 election, I want to be clear: The foreign interference we saw is reprehensible and outrageous and opened a new battleground for our company, our industry and our society," Stretch said. "That foreign actors, hiding behind fake accounts, abused our platform and other internet services to try to sow division and discord -- and to try to undermine our election process -- is an assault on democracy, and it violates all of our values." 
Twitter said that in 2016 following the election, it launched the Information Quality initiative to improve its system for detecting bad automation. It also improves machine learning to spot spam, and increases the precision of tools designed to prevent such content from spreading on its platform, it said. The company said that since the 2016 election, it has made significant improvements to reduce external attempts to manipulate content visibility. 
But lawmakers have said the companies need to do more. Earlier this month, Sens. Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, and Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, introduced the Honest Ads Act , which would require social networks to meet the same standards that political ads on TV and radio must meet. Now Playing: Watch this: Social media giants testify before Senate Judiciary 1:35 
Fearing unwanted regulation, Facebook and Twitter pre-emptively adopted new policies days before the hearings this week. Facebook promised more transparency for its political ads . Twitter announced it's blocking ads from Russia-sponsored news sites Russia Today and Sputnik . 
Whether the companies can stave off regulation will depend in large part on their performance this week before lawmakers. Earlier this month at a press conference at the US Capitol, senators slammed the three companies for not taking the threats seriously . 
"Frankly, their initial reaction to Russian involvement has been a bit embarrassing," Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in a Q&A with CNET on Friday . "They underestimated how serious the problem was." 
During the hearing Klobuchar asked the executives if they'd support the Honest Ads legislation she and Warner have introduced. Facebook's Stretch said the company is "not waiting for legislation" and is already taking action. Google's Salgado said the company supports the goals of the legislation and the company is willing to work with lawmakers to work through the nuances to get out the kinks of the legislation. 
But when pressed by Klobuchar, Twitter's Edgett admitted that without regulation there would be no enforcer to make sure they are complying with their policies and promises. Franken pounces 
Sen. Al Franken, a Democrat from Minnesota, pounded Facebook's Stretch, who took much of the brunt of the grilling from lawmakers during the hearing, on why the company didn't make the connection earlier that some of the ads were being paid for in Russian rubles. 
"You can't put together rubles with a political ad and say, 'Hmm, those two data points spell something bad?'" he asked. 
"In hindsight, we should have had a broader lens," Stretch responded. "There were signals we missed." 
Franken admonished Stretch and told him his goal was to help the company think through "this stuff a little better." 
In a second round of questioning, Edgett said it would commit to not taking foreign money for political ads (something Stretch didn't confirm). Salgado said Google would consider it if it made sense. 
Sen. Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican, questioned the companies' ability to distinguish foreign-sponsored political propaganda from free speech from American citizens. Cruz said that while some of his colleagues praised the companies for the actions they are now taking to curb Russian interference online, he noted he had "troublesome concerns" that these companies would use this power to censor content to fit their employees' political beliefs. 
"This is troubling to anyone who cares about a robust First Amendment," he said. 
First published Oct. 31, 12:25 p.m. PT. Update, 2 p.m. PT: This story has been updated with additional comments from senators and executives at the US Senate subcommittee hearing. 
iHate : CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet. 
Special Reports : CNET's in-depth features in one place. US Tech Policy