Facebook, Inc. FB just released its third-quarter 2017 financial results, posting earnings of $1.59 per share and revenues of $10.33 billion. Currently, Facebook is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) and is up around 1% to $184.30 per share in after-hours trading shortly after its earnings report was released.
FB:
Beat earnings estimates . The company posted earnings of $1.59 per share, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.29 per share.
Beat revenue estimates . The company saw revenue figures of $10.33 billion, beating our consensus estimate of $9.88 billion.
The social media company grew both its top and bottom lines in the third-quarter. Facebook averaged 1.37 billion daily active users for the month of September, which marks a 16% year-over-year gain. The company’s monthly active users also climbed 16% to 2.07 billion, as of the end of September.
Facebook’s mobile advertising revenue account for roughly 88% of total ad revenue, up from around 84% in the year-ago period.
"Our community continues to grow and our business is doing well," CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a statement.
"But none of that matters if our services are used in ways that don't bring people closer together. We're serious about preventing abuse on our platforms. We're investing so much in security that it will impact our profitability. Protecting our community is more important than maximizing our profits."
Here’s a graph that looks at FB’s Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise history:
Facebook, Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise Facebook, Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Facebook, Inc. Quote:
Facebook Inc. operates a social networking website worldwide. The Company's products for users are free of charge and available on the Web, mobile Web, and mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS. Its website enables users to connect, share, discover, and communicate with each other. The Facebook Platform is a set of tools and application programming interfaces that developers can use to build social apps on Facebook or to integrate their Websites with Facebook. It offers products that enable advertisers and marketers to engage with its users. Facebook Inc. is headquartered in Menlo Park, California.
Check back later for our full analysis on FB’s earnings report!
More Stock News: This Is Bigger than the iPhone!
It could become the mother of all technological revolutions. Apple sold a mere 1 billion iPhones in 10 years but a new breakthrough is expected to generate more than 27 billion devices in just 3 years, creating a $1.7 trillion market.
Zacks has just released a Special Report that spotlights this fast-emerging phenomenon and 6 tickers for taking advantage of it. If you don't buy now, you may kick yourself in 2020. Click here for the 6 trades >>
Want
Facebook, Inc. (FB): Free Stock Analysis Report