Facebook's first president Sean Parker says app has secretly snared billions of people into using it Entrepreneur and philanthropis Sean Parker speaks onstage / Theo Wargo/Getty Images for Global Citizen 
The app has been purposefully getting people hooked and potentially destroying society as it does so Thursday 9 November 2017 13:15 GMT Click to followThe Independent Tech 
Facebook has got the world hooked and might be using that to damage people's lives, according to its first president. 
Sean Parker, whose role in the site was dramatised in the film The Social Network, has revealed the various secret ways that the site has managed to make people use it. The man who helped create Facebook is so terrified that he feels he needs to sound the alarm about the tricks it uses to keep people engaged – and the damage that is doing to society – he has suggested. 
The site has developed special ways of ensuring that people give their personal life over to it without even knowing it, he told Axios . He said that some people might try and resist the pull of the site – but that it had special tricks to hook people in and ensure they stayed. How to stop Facebook from revealing everything about you How to stop Facebook from revealing everything about you 1/9 Lock your profile down 
If you haven’t done this already, do it now. In Settings, hit the Privacy tab. From here, you can control who gets to see your future posts and friends list. Choose from Public, Friends, Only Me and Custom in the dropdown menu. 2/9 Limit old posts 
Annoyingly, changing this has no effect on who’s able to see your past Facebook posts. Instead, on the Privacy page, you have to click on Limit Past Posts, then select Limit Old Posts and finally hit Confirm on the pop-up. 3/9 Make yourself harder to find 
You can stop completely random people from adding you by selecting Friends of Friends from the dropdown menu in the Who can send you friend requests? section of the Privacy page. It’s also worth limiting who can find your Facebook profile with your number and email address. At the bottom of the page is the option to prevent search engines outside of Facebook from linking to your profile. 4/9 Control access to your Timeline 
You can limit who gets to post things on your Timeline and who gets to see posts on your Timeline too. In Settings, go to Timeline and Tagging and edit the sections you want to lock down. 5/9 Block people 
When you block someone, they won’t be able to see things you post on your Timeline, tag you, invite you to events or groups, start conversations with you or add you as a friend. To do it, go to Settings and Blocking. Annoyingly, you have to block people on Messenger separately. You can also add friends to your Restricted list here, which means they’ll still be friends with you but will only be able to see your public posts and things you share on a mutual friend's Timeline. 6/9 Review tags 
One of Facebook’s handiest privacy features is the ability to review posts you’re tagged in before they appear on your Timeline. They’ll still be visible on the News Feed while they’re fresh, but won’t be tied to your profile forever. In Timeline and Tagging, enable Timeline review controls. 7/9 Clean up your apps 
You can view a list of all of the apps you’ve connected to your Facebook account by going to Settings and Apps. The list might be longer than you expected it to be. It’s worth tidying this up to ensure things you no longer use lose access to your personal information. If you don’t want to log into websites and apps with your facebook account, scroll down and turn Platform off. 8/9 Change your ad preferences 
You can view a list of everything Facebook thinks you’re into and tinker with your ad preferences by going to Settings and Adverts. A lot more information is displayed on the desktop site than the app, so we’d recommend doing this on a computer. 9/9 Download your data 
Facebook lets you download all of the data it has on you, including the posts you’ve shared, your messages and photos, ads you’ve clicked on and even the IP addresses that are logged when you log in or out of the site. It’s a hell of a lot of information, which you should download to ensure you never over-share on the social network again. 
"When Facebook was getting going, I had these people who would come up to me and they would say, 'I'm not on social media,'" he told the site's editor Mike Allen. "And I would say, 'OK. You know, you will be.' And then they would say, 'No, no, no. I value my real-life interactions. I value the moment. I value presence. I value intimacy.' And I would say, ... 'We'll get you eventually.'" 
He said that he hadn't quite understood the consequences of that belief that everyone should and would join up eventually. "It literally changes your relationship with society, with each other," he said, saying that the app could be changing the way that people's mind works. Facebook wants you to upload nude pictures of yourself 
"God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains," he said. 
The ways Facebook keeps people hooked includes the various features that people use every day, he said. Those were built to ensure that people were kept happy and excited by the app, according to Mr Parker, who was among the first people to start work on it. 
"The thought process that went into building these applications, Facebook being the first of them, ... was all about: 'How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?'" he said. 
"And that means that we need to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while, because someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever. And that's going to get you to contribute more content, and that's going to get you ... more likes and comments." 
He described that process as a "social validation feedback loop", that means that the longer people spend on Facebook, the more they need that validation – which in turn makes them spend more time there and upload more to the site. 
He said that that process was conscious decision at the beginning of the app and website's development. 
"The inventors, creators — it's me, it's Mark [Zuckerberg], it's Kevin Systrom on Instagram, it's all of these people — understood this consciously. And we did it anyway." 
Mr Parker has since left the tech industry and is now working for his own group that attempts to develop treatments for cancer. More about: