Subscribe today Facebook Still Lets People Target Ads by Race and Ethnicity 
Though the company promised a fix months ago, Facebook’s ad system still allows advertisers to target people in ways that could run afoul of antidiscrimination laws. 
The investigative journalism shop ProPublica has been on the case for over a year now… Read more 
Though the company promised a fix months ago, Facebook’s ad system still allows advertisers to target people in ways that could run afoul of antidiscrimination laws. 
The investigative journalism shop ProPublica has been on the case for over a year now . During its initial investigation, the social-media platform allowed ProPublica reporters who bought ads to block anyone with an “affinity” for African-American, Asian-American, or Hispanic people. That possibly put Facebook in violation of the Fair Housing Act, which makes housing discrimination for certain protected groups illegal. In response, Facebook announced an antidiscrimination initiative in February that included an automated system to spot problematic ads. 
A new story from ProPublica out this week suggests things haven’t changed much. Investigators were still able to block ads from being shown to “African Americans, mothers of high school kids, people interested in wheelchair ramps, Jews, expats from Argentina and Spanish speakers.” These are also all protected classes under the Fair Housing Act. 
This latest finding adds to what is becoming a litany of problems for Facebook’s ad targeting system. As we well know by now, Russian accounts bought political ads that were shown to millions of Americans as part of an effort to sway the 2016 presidential election. And yet another ProPublica investigation recently showed that people could buy ads that targeted “Jew haters.” 
Facebook hasn’t described in detail how the automated system to prevent discrimination is supposed to work, besides that it involves a machine-learning algorithm that is supposed to get better with time. If an ad is not approved, there is an option to ask for a manual review. But the algorithm allowed all ProPublica's ads through, so it seems that whatever technique Facebook is using, it still isn’t up to the task of policing how people use (or misuse) its ad platform. Image credit: Editor's Pick The Race to Power AI’s Silicon Brains 
Nigel Toon, the cofounder and CEO of Graphcore, a semiconductor startup based in the U.K., recalls that only a couple of years ago many venture capitalists viewed the idea of investing in semiconductor chips as something of joke. “You’d take an idea... Read the full story → 
Nigel Toon, the cofounder and CEO of Graphcore, a semiconductor startup based in the U.K., recalls that only a couple of years ago many venture capitalists viewed the idea of investing in semiconductor chips as something of joke. “You’d take an idea to a meeting,” he says, “and many of the partners would roll about on the floor laughing.” Now some chip entrepreneurs are getting a very different reception. Instead of rolling on the floor, investors are rolling out their checkbooks. November 22, 2017 Android Phones Have Been Tracking You More Closely Than You Might Like 
And there’s nothing you could’ve done about it. An investigation by Quartz reveals that Android devices currently send positioning data to Google servers even when location services are turned off, apps aren’t being used, and there isn’t even a carrier’s… Read more 
And there’s nothing you could’ve done about it. An investigation by Quartz reveals that Android devices currently send positioning data to Google servers even when location services are turned off, apps aren’t being used, and there isn’t even a carrier’s SIM inserted into the device. Google confirmed to Quartz that the practice has been in place since the start of 2017, and users can’t opt out of it. 
The location data is obtained by triangulating a phone in relation to nearby cell towers. That could reveal a person’s location within a quarter-mile—more than enough to worry privacy advocates, and the kind of accuracy that could lead to damaging intrusions if the information entered the wrong hands. The data appears to have been used to improve the way push notifications are delivered to smartphones, and it was never stored. Even so, Google tells Quartz that it will stop the practice by the end of November. 
It’s by no means the first time that a big tech firm has been in hot water over collection of location data: for as long as phones have been able to provide granular details of your position , companies and researchers have been trying to make use of it. But the news comes at a particularly low ebb of trust in firms like Facebook and Google, and will do little to bolster confidence that the search firm is still striving to do no evil. Source: Get The Download delivered to your inbox every day. The Download November 21, 2017 Coding Boot Camps Are in Trouble, but New York City Has a Plan to Shape Them Up 
To succeed in the jobs of the present and the future, technology skills like coding are more important than ever before . Enter online coding courses and coding boot camps, which have burst on the scene with promises of training people for well-paid jobs… Read more 
To succeed in the jobs of the present and the future, technology skills like coding are more important than ever before . Enter online coding courses and coding boot camps, which have burst on the scene with promises of training people for well-paid jobs in computer programming. But the upstart industry has suffered from a lack of standards, and as reports have surfaced of graduates not being able to land jobs, big names like Dev Bootcamp and Iron Yard have been forced to shut their doors. 
To stem the tide of closings, and perhaps deliver on the promise of proper skills training, officials in New York City are taking action. In partnership with coding schools Fullstack Academy, General Assembly, and the New York Code + Design Academy, city leaders released new guidelines on Tuesday for coding boot camps. (New York State has the second most coding schools in the U.S. after California, with many of them clustered in New York City.) 
The city’s report outlines 12 practices boot camps should follow to increase their chances of succeeding and serving their students. The practices are largely similar to the traits that make traditional colleges successful: doing more to create industry connections, providing friendlier financing options, and making sure students get real-world experience. 
“To grow our city’s tech sector, we need a well-trained, qualified workforce with in-demand skills,” Gregg Bishop, commissioner of New York City’s Department of Small Business Services told Bloomberg . “We are taking new steps to better ensure that students have a reliable pathway to good jobs that companies need to fill.” Source: Swipe Up To Dismiss A New Kind of Computer Vision Can’t Be Tricked by Weird Lighting 
Computer vision has come a long way since Imagenet , a large, open-source data set of labeled images, was released in 2009 for researchers to use to train AI—but images with tricky or bad lighting can still confuse algorithms. Researchers have either… Read more 
Computer vision has come a long way since Imagenet , a large, open-source data set of labeled images, was released in 2009 for researchers to use to train AI—but images with tricky or bad lighting can still confuse algorithms. Researchers have either tried to employ hand-crafted rules about how light interacts with objects or used a data set that covers as many lighting situations as possible. But there is a nearly limitless combination of items and light in the real world, handicapping both approaches. 
A new paper by researchers from MIT and DeepMind details a process that can identify images in different lighting without having to hand-code rules or train on a huge data set. The process, called a rendered intrinsics network (RIN), automatically separates an image into reflectance, shape, and lighting layers. It then recombines the layers into a reconstruction of the original image. 
To train RIN, the researchers created a data set of five shapes—cubes, spheres, cones, cylinders, and toruses—and rendered each with 10 different orientations and 500 different colors. As a proof of concept, the researchers showed how breaking down an image into the three layers could help a computer identify what an item in an image is, or infer its shape. For example, the model learned to spot much more complicated items—like the classic image test models Stanford bunny , Utah teapot , and Blender’s Suzanne —after being trained on the basic sample shapes, without ever seeing labeled examples. 
Beyond offering a new way to overcome the problem of infinite lighting situations for an image, RIN is also an example of learning with unlabeled data. Most AI still needs labeled data to learn, and preparing it takes hours of repetitive human labor. Finding a way to learn from unlabeled data is one of the next frontiers in artificial intelligence. 
Swipe Up To Dismiss While You Prepare to Eat Turkey, the FCC Reveals Its Plan to Dismantle Net Neutrality 
Call it a good week to bury bad news. As America winds down for Thanksgiving, there has been little time for pumpkin pie at the Federal Communications Commission: the Washington Post reports that the organization has published its final plan to dismantle… Read more 
Call it a good week to bury bad news. As America winds down for Thanksgiving, there has been little time for pumpkin pie at the Federal Communications Commission: the Washington Post reports that the organization has published its final plan to dismantle net neutrality. The unveiling had been previously predicted by the Wall Street Journal . 
This has, of course, been in the cards since Donald Trump was elected. The president’s pick for FCC chair, Ajit Pai, made it known early that he wanted to scrap the rules, and he moved quickly to overturn them. An initial proposal for a repeal was soon issued, and public consultation on that document closed just under three months ago. 
The FCC’s plan is now to roll back Obama-era rules that reclassified Internet service providers as common carriers rather than information services. Under Pai, the plan is to classify them as carriers once more. 
All that is a very bureaucratic way of saying the FCC’s ability to police ISPs—and the services they provide to consumers—will be softened. The plan will also hand some authority over ISPs to the Federal Trade Commission, the body that protects consumers and is able to sue companies whose actions do not tally with the claims they make to the public. 
The new plan will go to a vote at the FCC on December 14. It’s expected to pass, as the commision currently has a Republican majority. 
In a statement , Pai said that under the repeal of net neutrality rules, “the federal government will stop micromanaging the Internet.” He added that he will “look forward to returning to the light-touch, market-based framework that unleashed the digital revolution and benefited consumers here and around the world.” 
There will be public furor over the news. While opponents of net neutrality say such rules disincentivize investment in innovation and infrastructure, advocates say the repeal will make it easy for ISPs to throttle, block, or prioritize traffic for their own gain. The voices in support of net neutrality are loud, and it seems the FCC has chosen this week to roll out its plan in order to minimize their volume. 
As we’ve argued in the past , neutrality may be a worthy aspiration, but it’s one that doesn’t actually seem to work in reality, and it often ends up being as frustrating as the system it replaces. So while it may seem like a violation of consumer rights, we may be better served by simply getting on with the business of using, building, and refining the Internet—whatever the FCC says. 
This post has been updated to reflect the fact that the FCC has published its plan to repeal net neutrality. Source: