Home » News » Facebook to train 50,000 Nigerians in digital skills Facebook to train 50,000 Nigerians in digital skills On 2:35 am In News by Nwafor Polycarp Comments 
By Prince Osuagwu 
Social media platform, Facebook has unfolded plans to train no fewer than 50,000 Nigerians, including students, small and medium enterprise owners among others in digital skills. 
The technology platform also disclosed that it will open first community hub space in Nigeria next year to encourage software developers and technology entrepreneurs. 
In addition, Facebook equally explained that it will be supporting a number of existing tech Hubs to serve the communities outside Lagos. 
The hubs will function as learning centres for local communities, providing multiple opportunities for training and access. 
Facebook made the announcements in Lagos, in a meeting with a cross session of journalists and other stakeholders in the technology ecosystem. 
Facebook’s Head of Platform Partnerships, Middle East & Africa Mr Emeka Afigbo said, “Nigeria is producing a new generation of exciting start-ups that have incredible potential. We understand the important role Facebook plays here in Nigeria with developers and start-ups and we have invested in helping these communities build for the next billion. 
One of our key passions at Facebook is nurturing and helping to develop the tech and start-up community, and I’m excited to announce our partnership with the Nigerian tech hub ecosystem especially the NG_HUB space, here in Lagos.” 
According to him, Facebook was committed to working with Nigerian small businesses, tech entrepreneurs and the next generation of leaders to better understand and utilise the power of digital tools for economic growth. 
He said: “We are launching a series of learning-based programmes facilitated by local training partners; these have been designed to provide skills that lead to employment and to support the growth of small businesses. The goal is to train and support over 50,000 students, small businesses and creative entrepreneurs across the country through a series of scaled digital skills trainings, as well as long-term impact programmes”. 
Afigbo said that the Community hub will be a multi-faceted creative space, which will connect and bring together developers, start-ups and the wider community to collaborate learn and exchange ideas. .