Facebook says it needs your explicit photos to combat revenge porn Travis M. Andrews, The Washington Post Published 9:32 am, Wednesday, November 8, 2017 Photo: NurPhoto/NurPhoto Via Getty Images Image 1 of / 23 Close Image 1 of 23 
A Facebook logo is seen on a large screen in this photo illustration on 29 June, 2017, in Bydgoszcz,Poland . (Photo by Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto via Getty Images) 
A Facebook logo is seen on a large screen in this photo illustration on 29 June, 2017, in Bydgoszcz,Poland . (Photo by Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto via Getty Images) Photo: NurPhoto/NurPhoto Via Getty Images Image 2 of 23 
20 reasons to hate facebook 
20 reasons to hate facebook Photo: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images Image 3 of 23 
1. Easily one of the main reasons to hate Facebook is that your feed has been overwhelmed with images of the Orange Man … by both conservatives and liberals. Attacks, defenses, outrage and curiosity, one can only take so many variations on the Orange Man theme. And yet, there he is every time you fire it up. There should be days of the week or times in the day when Orange Man images are banned from FB. Photo: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images Image 4 of 23 
2. Even though the Orange Man is ubiquitous, you’re probably still in an echo chamber, deaf to any contrary political or ideological points of view … and that’s probably a guilty relief. So, we end up criticizing Facebook for giving us exactly what we set out to accomplish. How many people in your feed declared they were going to post political stuff regardless of whether it lost them FB friends? Still, it’s the platform’s function and algorithms that encourage insularity. Photo: Nick Lowndes/Getty Images/Ikon Images Image 5 of 23 
3. Seems like the only news people share is grim news, presented as evidence in favor of their political theories. Dead children washing up on beaches or littering a street somewhere, bombs exploding in devastated neighborhoods, the latest climate change disaster (recently, it's the bleaching of coral reefs), malfeasance of every stripe … almost wish for the return of all cats all the time. Photo: Jamesbenet/Getty Images Image 6 of 23 
4. Vaguebooking: Just when Facebook finally started weeding out clickbait headlines like “A dog walks into a bar, and you won’t believe what happens three minutes later!” … we now have Vaguebooking. It’s the digital cry of someone facing an apparently indeterminate threat or challenge that has pushed them to the edge: “I hate my life right now” or “I don’t think I can make it” or “I am SO SICK OF IT!” Let’s just all agree to stop this obvious ploy for attention. Photo: By Wunderfool/Getty Images Image 7 of 23 
5. Along those lines, there’s the friend apparently suffering a bout of ennui that would make Camus shiver: “What’s good tonight? Bored at home.” One, they are not getting off the couch no matter what; and, two, they too are simply fishing for interaction. Photo: RDA/Getty Images Image 8 of 23 
6. Then there’s the constant run of opinions and lectures from people who are fronting as experts but defiantly are npt. Call it Facesplaining. 
6. Then there’s the constant run of opinions and lectures from people who are fronting as experts but defiantly are npt. Call it Facesplaining. Photo: H. Armstrong Roberts/ClassicStock/Getty Images Image 9 of 23 
7. The sudden appearance of a comment from a long-forgotten “friend.” You either forgot or don’t remember, let alone comprehend, how they got in your friend list, but it’s a really dumb comment with a link to a fake story or conspiracy. Should you get on there and call this a-hole out or just move along, knowing no one will think poorly of you because of what the person said? Photo: Getty Images Image 10 of 23 
8. The envy factor: You see others having a great f’ing time at parties, traveling, taking selfies in front of the grandest monuments of human achievement or riding an elephant, etc. Of course, you really only cruise FB at work or while supine on the couch with a bowl of popcorn and six empty ice cream bar wrappers scattered around on the floor … feeling crappy about your life. Photo: Olga Tretyak / EyeEm/Getty Images/EyeEm Image 11 of 23 
9. Like a city of segregated neighborhoods, FB isn’t conducive to an experience of other races. The absence of diversity comes from our own personal limitations, but social media’s system of connections further thickens the membrane of the race bubble. Photo: GUNILLA ELAM/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY/Getty Images/Science Photo Library RM Image 12 of 23 
10. While I have accepted that I will not see contrary political positions in my Facebook feed because I have embraced the bubble, yet I also don’t see other cultures represented … outside of photos from vacations. Photo: WIN-Initiative/Getty Images/WIN-Initiative RM Image 13 of 23 
11. I hate Facebook when my friends or relatives or distant acquaintances get suckered into posting fake news and making some evaluative comment. A pastor in my feed posted a fake news story about the pope, declared his relief that the pope now held this position, etc. Thus, the pastor’s own radical views were exposed! Photo: Mimi Haddon/Getty Images Image 14 of 23 
12. Facebook has given me the environment in which I feel that political differences are the main divisions in America, when really the only division in America that matters, aside from racism, is economic. 
12. Facebook has given me the environment in which I feel that political differences are the main divisions in America, when really the only division in America that matters, aside from racism, is economic. Photo: Bgwalker/Getty Images Image 15 of 23 
13. Take into account, also, that Facebook makes people feel desperate for approbation … makes us competitive for number of friends over depth of friendships. 
13. Take into account, also, that Facebook makes people feel desperate for approbation … makes us competitive for number of friends over depth of friendships. Photo: Walter B. McKenzie/Getty Images Image 16 of 23 
14. I find that I modify how I imagine myself based on how The Other responds, reacts … or not. It’s technically called "social comparison-tailoring,” a great phrase. 
14. I find that I modify how I imagine myself based on how The Other responds, reacts … or not. It’s technically called "social comparison-tailoring,” a great phrase. Photo: Jonathan Knowles/Getty Images Image 17 of 23 
15. And, therefore, I hate Facebook because it has made dozens of multi-millionaires ... hell, maybe hundreds of millionaires via the desperate social needs of homo sapiens . 
15. And, therefore, I hate Facebook because it has made dozens of multi-millionaires ... hell, maybe hundreds of millionaires via the desperate social needs of homo sapiens . Photo: C.J. Burton/Getty Images Image 18 of 23 
16. I hate Facebook because it made Mark Zuckerberg a billionaire many times over, giving him the kind of power no single human being should ever have. 
16. I hate Facebook because it made Mark Zuckerberg a billionaire many times over, giving him the kind of power no single human being should ever have. Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images Image 19 of 23 
17. While I do think Facebook allows us to encourage each other in our political, social or personal strivings, I also think it becomes an excuse for inaction. 
17. While I do think Facebook allows us to encourage each other in our political, social or personal strivings, I also think it becomes an excuse for inaction. Photo: CHRISsadowski/Getty Images Image 20 of 23 
18. I hate Facebook because it accentuates, maybe even accelerates, the alienation I feel from personal human interaction. Millions of years of evolution have built up in us the impulse and need to read each other's faces, to sniff each other's pheromones and communicate through body language. But Facebook is a disorienting, anemic dreamscape wherein my only succor is a thumbs up or cold, hard, two-dimensional typefaces.