News Facebook Vows More Transparency Heading into U.S. Congressional Hearings this Week Facebook execs said Friday they will now verify political ad buyers in federal elections and institute a policy that will require them to reveal correct names and locations. By - Oct 30, 2017 
A s pressure mounts with the upcoming hearings on Russian interference in the American presidential election of Donald Trump, Facebook is making efforts to increase transparency for people who see, engage with and buy political advertising on the social media site. 
Facebook execs said Friday they will now verify political ad buyers in federal elections and institute a policy that will require them to reveal correct names and locations. 
The notion of self-policing alone, I just don’t think that’s it, because it would simply move the bad actors onto sites that aren’t. 
Facebook said they will also create new graphics that allow users click on the ads to learn more about who produced them and see all of the ads an advertiser is running –wheher they were targeted towards them or not. 
The effects of the new policy go beyond political advertising said Rob Goldman, Facebook’s vice president in charge of ad products. The new tools will increase transparency requirements for all advertisers — even those that aren’t political. 
“I keep learning about how extensive this ecosystem is and the inter-relationship between paid ads, fake accounts, the ability of the bots to push traffic,” Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, told reporters Thursday. 
Warner also implied that regulations could soon be coming. 
“The notion of self-policing alone, I just don’t think that’s it, because it would simply move the bad actors onto sites that aren’t,” he said. 
The changes in Facebook policy come it admitted that it ran more than 3,000 ads linked to Russia that were created to take advantage of divisive U.S. social issues. These ads were seen by an estimated 10 million people leading up to and after the 2016 U.S. elections. 
Facebook, Twitter, and Google will appear before the U.S. Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday to give insight into how their platforms were used by Russia or other foreign actors to potentially influence the presidential election campaign. 
The appearance by Facebook, Twitter, and Google are part of hearings being held by the Senate and House intelligence committees and the Senate Judiciary Committee in their ongoing investigation into Russian election interference. 
“I got a lot of [questions], and I’m going to ask them all at the open hearing,” Senate Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said in a interview before implying that more revelations are to come. “I want to save it so it’s a surprise for everybody.” What do you think?