Facebook has taken down a fake profile using photos of a fallen Canadian soldier to pose as an American in the military and target women, asking them to send photos and money.
The social media account used the name and photos of Cpl. Nathan Cirillo, who was shot and killed while standing guard at the Canadian War Memorial in Ottawa three years ago. 
The profile was noticed earlier this month, and has since been deleted following complaints from Canadian veterans.
“I was angry, disgusted that someone would go so low and use pictures of a soldier who gave the ultimate sacrifice for his country in the line of duty,” said retired Cpl. Sylvain Chartrand, one of the directors at the Canadian Veterans Advocacy.
He said someone alerted the group on Facebook about the fraudulent account Monday. The group then started a Canada-wide campaign asking the veterans community for help in reporting the account. Within two hours, the profile page was taken down.
  We “were outraged and pulled together as a team. They shared this campaign with other Facebook groups and the mission was accomplished,” Chartrand said.
A Facebook spokesperson said the page was taken down by the site as soon as it received the complaints, but would not comment further on the specifics of the imposter page. 
Karley White didn’t waste any time messaging the women who liked the photos posted on the page’s timeline — telling them the person is an impostor. 
“It was heartbreaking,” said White, who found the fake account through a post shared on a Facebook group for military spouses.
“And if someone had done that with my husband, I’d hope that others would do the same, so the impersonator doesn’t win.”
Many of the women she got in touch said the person posing as Cirillo was either sending unsolicited pictures of male genitalia or asking money from them, White said.
One of the women she messaged was Lexi Hansley, of Williamstown, Ky. Hansley told the Star that she got a friend request from the account on Nov. 6. 
Hansley described their first few conversations as friendly — saying hello and asking how their days were going. But, she said, their conversation became more personal after a few days.
“He asked if he could see what I looked like, how I sounded and such, things I found odd. I told him I don’t like cameras,” Hansley said. 
After refusing the person’s request to send a photo, Hansley said the person sent a picture of his genitals, which she immediately deleted.
She believed it was a way for the person behind the account to convince her to send nude photos. Hansley said she stopped talking to the person after that.
A few days later, she said White messaged her on Facebook, informing her about the real Cirillo and what happened to him.
“I was pretty upset and angry,” Hansley said. “No one should take a good name in the world, and use it for their own opportunity. That’s just not right on a lot of levels.”
Hansley said she planned to confront the owner of the fake profile on Tuesday before learning the account has been deactivated. The identity of the person who created the fake account is unknown.
“I read articles earlier about him. He truly seems like a nice guy. It (would have been) an honor to talk to the real Nathan Cirillo.”
With files from Annie Arnone 
Editor’s note: This story has been updated from a previously published version to correct the name of Karley White.