Facebook boosts regional presence with new Dubai HQ Monday 30 October 2017 | 09:04 CET | News 
Facebook has opened the doors to its brand new regional headquarters in Dubai, UAE, completing five years in the Middle East and North Africa (Mena).The 20,000-sq-ft space features an open office concept, and showcases regional cultural inspirations through the various designs and artistic cues. Since launching a local presence in the region in 2012, Facebook has been embraced by users here, growing to 164 million monthly active people. With over 60 employees, mostly from the Arab region, Facebook’s office in Dubai acts as a hub, building local communities and bringing the world closer together, said a statement from the social media giant. 
Over the past five years Facebook has grown its Mena user base by 264 per cent, and now looks to galvanize the digital transformation in the Arab World, collaborating with users and partners to create products and solutions relevant for the region, it stated. The new office houses a strong, purpose-built team, with strong regional experience, that reflects the brand’s mission to give people the power to build communities and bring the world closer together. Facebook has supported with driving both awareness and consideration for global and local brands in the region, said the statement. 
Complementing this is the company’s mobile-first strategy as over 156 million users access Facebook on mobile devices every month in Mena, it added. Across Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait, Egypt, Lebanon and many more countries in the region, we are seeing users, content creators, and brands use Facebook in new and innovative ways, unlike anywhere in the world. Facebook’s strong connection to the region is reflected in the Arabic themes used in the new office design, not just limited to quirky meeting room names such as ‘Hommous’, but also with commissioned pieces that blend modern and traditional styles from Emirati artist Eman Al Hashemi, making her the first artist from the Arab world to join Facebook’s Global Artist in Residence programme. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.