Facebook mocked after slapping 'adult content' ban on handmade ROBIN REDBREAST Christmas cards Festive greeting card designs including a red robin and a stag were pulled because Facebook says they "don't allow the sale of adult items"
 Share Comments By Vickie Oliphant 19:50, 12 NOV 2017 Updated 21:17, 12 NOV 2017 News Facebook blocked the sale of three Christmas cards featuring painted woodland creatures (Image: Etsy) daily Facebook has been ridiculed after it was revealed the social media site blocked the sale of handmade Christmas cards because of their "adult" and "sexual" nature.
Jackie Charley, 52, said it was hilarious that her seasonal greetings cards featuring images of a robin redbreast, a stag and a squirrel were rejected.
The artists had hoped to sell her new cards through Facebook, but a message repeatedly popped up rejecting the items.
Writing on Facebook, Mrs Charley said: "Hilariously, Facebook has blocked my Christmas cards from becoming a product in my shop due to their shameful, sexual nature!"
She then Quote: d a message she received from the company after she tried to list her cards on the site's shopping feature.
It read: "It looks like we didn’t approve your item because we don’t allow the sale of adult items or services (eg sexual enhancement items or adult videos)."
(Image: ETSY) (Image: Etsy) Read More "Absolute disgrace!" Coca-Cola Christmas truck visit causes traffic gridlock chaos trapping drivers in car park This was the first time Mrs Charley, from Denholm, tried to sell her Bothycrafts cards online.
She managed to upload another set of cards without any issue later that day, but failed every time she tried to resubmit her first batch.
The mother-of-two told the Daily Mail: said: "These are lovely pieces of art that I just wanted people to enjoy at Christmas. How they could be considered inappropriate or sexual is beyond me."
Mrs Charley works from home so she can care for her husband, who has a serious medical condition.
And the couple rely on the money she earns from selling the cards online.
In her post on Facebook, the artist said she could not "stop laughing" after she learnt that the company thought they were "shameful" and "sexual".
(Image: Etsy) Read More Morrisons supermarket installs in-store BAR to ease stress of Christmas shopping Facebook has not responded to her complaints and has not yet removed the block, despite Mrs Charley repeatedly contacting them.
Sources told the Mail the ban was probably an error and that they are investigating the issue.
But the decision sparked outrage by customers, and several people swarmed to the artist's post to ask to buy the cards in anger over the ban.
"Absoflippinlutely appalling" commented one Facebook user.
Quote: : "Their actions are reminiscent of Trump! Unbelievable! They must be blind."
Debi Webster, a friend of the artist, said: "Very funny facebook sees your beautiful cards as inappropriate when there is so much worse things shown on here".
A fourth said: "They clearly should have gone to Specsavers!"
 Daily Newsletter DailyMirror Follow @DailyMirror Subscribe to our Daily Christmas cards Facebook Christmas