News Crime + Public Safety Facebook helps Placentia police catch man suspected of robbing gas station Officers start an investigation at E. Lincoln Ave. and Sunkist St. in Anaheim on Wednesday afternoon after a pursuit comes to an end catching Mauricio Eraldo Esquivel, a man suspected of robbing gas station in Placentia Monday night. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG) By Scott Schwebke | sschwebke@scng.com PUBLISHED: 8:52 pm | UPDATED: November 16, 2017 at 7:27 am A suspect has been arrested on suspicion of robbing a Placentia gas station Monday night at gunpoint (Courtesy of Placentia Police Department) A Facebook post by Placentia police is being credited with helping to nab a man suspected of being a gunman who robbed a gas station Monday night.
Mauricio Eraldo Esquivel, 23, Anaheim, was arrested around 1:45 p.m. Wednesday and booked into the Orange County jail on suspicion of robbery, police said in a statement.
Mauricio Eraldo Esquivel (Courtesy of Placentia Police Department)
Officers relax after a pursuit comes to an end after catching Mauricio Eraldo Esquivel, a man suspected of robbing gas station in Placentia as they start an investigation at E. Lincoln Ave. and Sunkist St. in Anaheim on Wednesday afternoon. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG)
Officers start an investigation at E. Lincoln Ave. and Sunkist St. in Anaheim on Wednesday afternoon after a pursuit comes to an end catching Mauricio Eraldo Esquivel, a man suspected of robbing gas station in Placentia Monday night. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG)
 He was taken into custody without incident after Placentia detectives, with assistance from agents with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, Anaheim officers and Brea detectives, stopped a vehicle in the area of Sunkist Street and Lincoln Avenue in Anaheim.
Esquivel had shaved his beard in an apparent attempt to alter his appearance and avoid detection, Placentia police Sgt. Bryce Angel said.
Esquivel’s arrest follows a Monday night robbery at the Chevron gas station at 313 W. Orangethorpe Ave. in Placentia.
Around 11:05 p.m., a man dressed in dark clothing and wearing a black bandana over his face used a handgun to rob a clerk of a small amount of cash. The clerk was not injured.
Store surveillance cameras captured photographs of the robber that were later posted to the Placentia Police Department’s Facebook page.
Police quickly received numerous tips enabling them to identify Esquivel as the suspect, Angel said.
“Facebook played an important role in solving this crime and in the community coming forward to identify this person,” he said.
Get