Shares of Facebook Inc. fell Thursday, as widespread praise on Wall Street for the social networking company’s third-quarter results wasn’t enough to extend their rally further into record territory.
Concerns over how a big increase in security spending will affect future profits may be giving investors reason for pause.
The stock FB, -2.45% slumped 1.7% in active morning trade, pulling back from Wednesday’s record close of $182.66. Volume topped 10 million shares within the first half-hour after the open, already more than half the full-day average. 
The company reported after Wednesday’s closing bell earnings, revenue and daily and monthly active user numbers that rose above expectations. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on the post-earnings conference call with analysts, however, that the company will invest “so much” in security that it will “significantly impact our profitability going forward.”
Don’t miss : Facebook earnings will take a hit from Russian election interference .
See also : Feinstein warns tech giants over Russian meddling: ‘Do something about it—or we will.’ 
Of the 44 analysts who have been surveyed by FactSet, 21 raised their stock price targets Thursday. That boosted the average target to $205.55, which is 14% above current levels, from $198.34 as of Oct. 31.
Analyst Mark Mahaney at RBC Capital lifted his stock price target to $230, which ties for the highest among those surveyed by FactSet, from $195. He said that while fighting the “political warfare” that arose from foreign meddling in U.S. elections will raise the cost of doing business for Facebook, “that business is inherently extremely impressive.”
He reiterated his outperform rating, and wrote in a note to clients, “We still think [Facebook] is the best growth story in tech.”
Susquehanna Financial’s Shyam Patil tied for the top target at $230, up from $200, and reiterated his positive rating on the stock, saying the “strong” results confirm the secular ad-share gain story. He also played down Facebook’s tough talk on spending on security.
“While the initial expense growth outlook for 2018 may have been more aggressive than anticipated, we would note that [Facebook] has a history of underspending guide, and we are currently well below the low end for expense growth in 2018,” Patil wrote in a research note.
Stifel Nicolaus’s Scott Devitt was the lone analyst to cut his stock price target, to $195 from $200, saying that while he supports the increased investment in security, he expects the stock to “consolidate” while investors digest the “material step-up” in expenditures next year.
Facebook’s stock has still climbed 6.1% over the past three months and 56% year to date, while the S&P 500 index SPX, -0.29% has gained 3.7% in three months and 15% so far this year.
Related Topics U.S. Stocks Markets Investing