Facebook weathers questions, as its earnings rise + Bump stocks return + #MeToo persists 
By Dan Morain November 02, 2017 5:30 AM Our take 
Editorials 
It’s tempting, but regulation isn’t the answer to get rid of fake news: Attorneys for Facebook, Twitter and Google say the California companies are working hard to block internet trolls and bots from spreading misinformation on their websites. But congressional leaders are considering regulations that could harm the First Amendment anyway . 
Columns 
Foon Rhee: Some say California is getting soaked on flood insurance. Should we go it alone? The National Flood Insurance Program is inundated with debt. California residents pay far more into the program than they are getting back. As we move into the rainy season, a growing number of voices are urging the state to explore its own flood insurance program. 
Dan Walters , CalMatters : California motorists who filled their gas tanks Wednesday paid an extra 12 cents a gallon, thanks to a multibillion-dollar package of improvements to highways, streets and other transportation facilities enacted by the Legislature and Gov. Jerry Brown this year. But it will do little, if anything, to relieve traffic jams . 
Welcome to The Take , your opinion-politics newsletter. Please tell your friends and they too can be on The Take . Take a number: 35906 
Though he swears he doesn’t inhale, intrepid Yolo County Supe Matt Rexroad has been focusing a lot on marijuana lately. Rexroad spent several hours at a dispensary, watching seemingly healthy people come in, show their 4-20 cards, and leave with their medicine. On Wednesday, Rexroad decided to see how easy it would be to get a cannabis card. He turned to Google, found a website and filled out a form, honestly disclosing he had occasional muscle pain, this because he lifts weights at a gym a few times a week. After paying a $49 fee, he got his card in 15 minutes, issued by Dr. Hector Rene Fernandez , California medical license No. A 35906, with an address in Henderson, Nev. Rexroad and Feelgood Fernandez had never met or spoken. A check of Hernandez’s license at the California Medical Board reveals the following: “License status: Delinquent - License renewal fee has not been paid. No practice is permitted.” Rexroad wasn’t planning to use the card, not that any dispensary clerk would think to check Feelgood Fernandez’s license status. 
Op-eds 
Miya Yoshitani : Building a sustainable world must not come at the expense of workers struggling to make ends meet. And that’s why the company’s recent round of firings, with no warning and no explanation, are troubling. 
California Forum 
Lisa Fujie Parks and David S. Lee: How to prevent sexual harassment and violence before it happens. 
Greg Sazima: Why we gladly tackle other big social problems, but recoil from homelessness . 
David L. Ulin : An urgent, terrifying, important, maybe even life-and-death appeal to Trump opponents for a political pitch besides fear itself. Their take 
USA Today : For a few days after the deadliest mass killing in modern U.S. history, Republican leaders in Congress sounded as if they might be open to banning devices, known as "bump stocks," that enabled the Las Vegas shooter to turn his semiautomatics into even more effective killing machines. “This is definitely an area where we’re going to look and be able to act on,” said House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy , R-Calif. Sanity did not prevail for long. After a signal from the National Rifle Association , spineless lawmakers have done exactly what the gun lobby wants. Absolutely nothing . 
LA Daily News : Last week, the details of a 2009 sexual assault by Assemblyman Raul Bocanegra , D-Pacoima, were made public by his victim, Elise Flynn Gyore . In light of this revelation, Bocanegra cannot be taken seriously as a representative of the people who elected him without this knowledge, and we ask that he step down immediately .