'SHE'S A BAD B***H' Facebook rants of ‘creepy’ Texas gunman Devin Kelley, 26, who preached about atheism before killing 26 churchgoers 
Devin Kelley, 26, who carried out the worst mass shooting in Texas' history, ranted on Facebook about churchgoers being 'stupid' By Mark Hodge 7th November 2017, 12:49 pm Updated: 7th November 2017, 12:50 pm Comments THE “deranged” gunman who killed 26 churchgoers in Texas was militant atheist who ranted on Facebook about “stupid” religious people. 
Devin Kelley, 26, who opened fire on worshippers in First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs yesterday , was described as “creepy” and “weird” by former schoolmates. Enterprise News and Pictures Texas shooter Devin Kelley is described as 'weird' and as being an 'atheist' by his former classmates 
Classmate Nina Rosa Nava write on Facebook that the mass murderer used to rant on the social network about his atheist beliefs. 
She said: “He was always talking about how people who believe in God were stupid and trying to preach his atheism.” 
Fellow user Christopher Leo Longoria replied: “I removed him off FB for those same reasons! He was being super nagtive (sic) all the timd (sic).” 
Another Facebook friend of the killer added: “He was weird but never that damn weird, always posting his atheist sh** like Nina wrote, but damn he always posted pics of him and his baby - crazy.” AP:Associated Press At least 26 people were killed when Devin Kelley opened fire at the First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs on Sunday Enterprise News and Pictures Married father-of-one Kelley, pictured with his child, ranted on Facebook about being an atheist Poppel Yearbook Library Kelley, pictured in his yearbook photo, was branded 'creepy' by former classmates at New Braunfels High School 
Speaking with the Mail Online, Nava described Kelley as an “outcast but not a loner.” 
On the subject of the massacre, she said: “It's not something I expected from him.” 
Cord Eubank Brown said on social media that he went to high school with “maniac” Kelley. He wrote: “There were people I knew who stayed away from this guy for many reasons, which all make sense now. He just requested me on Facebook recently.” 
Another former classmate, who wished to remain anonymous, told the Mail that Kelley “always creeped me out and was different.” 
One former friend of the depraved killer wrote on Facebook of his shock that someone who “would stay the night at his place when we were kids” would carry out such a horrific crime. 
He added: “I ended up distancing myself from him in high school after he got in an argument with me in school and he tried punching me several times. Dude was crazy man.” Enterprise News and Pictures Kelley had earlier posted a picture of the weapon used in the massacre on Facebook AP:Associated Press Authorities pictured removing the SUV which Kelley used to flee the scene of the mass killing Donald Trump claims Texas gun attack was a 'mental health problem' and not a 'gun situation' 
Speaking with the Mail, Patrick Boyce, who attended New Braunfels High School with Kelley, said the murderer was “fairly normal, , but kinda quiet and lately seemed depressed.” 
He said: “'He was the first atheist I met. He went Air Force after high school, got discharged but I don't know why.” 
Dave Ivey, Kelley’s uncle, told NBC News : "I never in a million years could have believed Devin could be capable of this kind of thing. 
"I am numb. My family will suffer because of his coward actions. I am so sorry for the victims in Texas." 
Yesterday evening, two police vans were seen parked outside Kelley’s home on the western outskirts of New Braunfels , north of San Antonio. AP:Associated Press FBI agents pictured at the scene of the massacre which is the worst mass shooting in the history of Texas AFP or licensors Grieving locals hold a candle-lit vigil on Sunday evening after at least 26 people, including children, were gunned down Dozens dead following mass shooting at First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas 
Neighbour Ryan Albers, 16, said he heard gunfire coming from the evil murderers home in recent days. 
He said: "It was definitely not just a shotgun or someone hunting. It was someone using automatic weapon fire." 
Kelley's now deleted Facebook page showed a photo of what appeared to be an assault rifle, posted under the words: "She's a bad b****." 
The page also featured the Mark Twain quote: "I do not fear death." 
Devin Kelley, a former member of the US Air Force, burst into the church in Sutherland Springs in yesterday while a service was taking place and opened fire on the congregation . 
The gunman was dressed in black, tactical-type gear and wearing a ballistic vest when he entered the church during the late morning service. Texas Police Department Kelley was thrown out of the US Air Force after he allegedly attacked his wife and child Emergency services at the scene of Texas Sutherland Springs Church shooting 
The US Air Force confirmed Kelley served in its ranks from 2010 and was posted to its Logistics Readiness unit at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico . 
He was court-martialed in 2012 on charges of assaulting his wife and child, and given a bad-conduct discharge, confinement for 12 months and a reduction in rank, Air Force spokeswoman Ann Stefanek said. 
US President Donald Trump has described the 26-year-old killer as "deranged" saying a the shooting was a "mental health problem at the highest level", but not a "gun situation". 
Locals have described how Kelley was stopped by two brave men who fatally wounded the “deranged” killer before running his getaway car off the road. Facebook Local man Stephen Willeford managed to shoot the mass killer in between his body armour, it has been claimed Facebook Fellow local Johnnie Langendorff, along with Willeford, ran Kelley off the road 
Rifle-wielding plumber Willeford managed to shoot Kelley in between his body armour, with the bullet piercing his side, reports the Mail Online . 
Texas Department of Public Safety Regional Director Freeman Martin also confirmed that the 55-year-old, known as an excellent shot in the small town, “grabbed his rifle and engaged the suspect.” 
The resident said that Willeford and fellow local Johnnie Langendorff jumped in the latter’s truck and gave chase to Kelley – who had grabbed a hostage and had fled in an SUV. 
But when Langendorff managed to run the depraved killer off the road, the pair of heroes realised that Kelley had bled out after earlier being shot by Willeford, claims the local. Hero Johnnie Langendorff on chasing gunman Devin Kelley after shooting massacre at First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas MOST READ IN NEWS Jet makes emergency landing as wife discovers hubby is cheating mid-flight MAULED BY BOSSES First picture of mum attacked by tiger as zoo blames HER for brutal attack Space oddity Russian 'born on Mars' says he was sent to Earth to save us from nuke war HORSING AROUND Melbourne Cup sees boozed up Aussies pass out, wrestle and dance at races DATE FROM HELL Russian 'Hannibal Lecter' bit off nurse's ears, nose and fingertips sex probe death Labour politician found dead 4 days after being suspended over sex claims 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours