Technology > Facebook confirms its employees will have to first see your nude photos to protect you from revenge porn Last Updated: NOV 10, 2017 New Delhi Email Author 
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter have unwittingly become platforms for the spread fake news, violent groups and sexual harassment. And while these companies have been working overtime to douse some of the flames, their methods can often become controversial. Following Facebook's announcement earlier this week that it was running a pilot test in Australia where it wants users to upload their nude photos in order to fight revenge porn, a lot of people were confused about how this will work and whether this puts the user at risk. But the company has now clarified its method in a statement. 
Facebook released a statement on Thursday explaining that its "limited" pilot in Australia aims to "prevent non-consensual intimate images from being posted and shared anywhere on Facebook, Messenger and Instagram." For this to work, the company, in partnership with the country's eSafety Commissioner, is asking users who fear that their intimate images may be shared without their consent to send those images to themselves on Messenger so that the company can hash them and prevent them from being uploaded again. This is meant to protect users from sexual harassers and victims of revenge porn. Also Read: Twitter Safety Calendar details how and when it will combat abuse, harassment and violent groups 
The company's Global Head of Safety, Antigone Davis, defends the test and clarified that it is "completely voluntary". She adds in a detailed step-by-step process that the intimate images uploaded by users will be reviewed by a specially trained representative from the company's Community Operations team that will hash the image to create "a human-unreadable, numerical fingerprint of it." She further clarifies that only the photo hash is stored and not the photo itself. 
Once the photo is hashed, Facebook will notify the user via a secure email to delete the photo from the Messenger thread. The user will have to delete the photo from Messenger for Facebook to remove it from its servers. Facebook's statement means to satisfy those who have been finding the whole project a little too creepy for their liking. After all, the social media site is basically asking you to upload your sensitive photos just so that it can fight others from uploading it without your consent. But the very idea of having to upload the images in the first place and having them being reviewed by people will still make people feel uneasy. For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @IndiaTodayTech and on Facebook at facebook.com/indiatodaytech For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in .ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.