Facebook can't cope with the world it's created Business Insider | 11/12/2017 | Christina Larson, Foreign Policy in General Governments in Southeast Asia use Facebook as public evidence of wrongdoing, imprisoning activists and journalists for expressing dissent.Facebook does not have an office in Cambodia or Myanmar, and only a small office in Thailand despite its popularity in the countries. Facebook - Southeast - Asia - Rest - World Facebook is affecting Southeast Asia politically just as much as the rest of the world, but the tech giant does not seem to act.As Mark Zuckerberg returns from his latest pilgrimage to Beijing, it's time for him to pay more attention to the countries in Asia where Facebook actually matters. Facebook - CEO - Years - Officials - Hopes The Facebook CEO has spent years courting Chinese officials in the hopes of winning admittance to the world's largest internet market. But while he's been beating his head against the Great Firewall, Facebook has swept like wildfire through the rest of Asia, with complicated and sometimes dangerous results.Asia is now Facebook's biggest user base. That has given the company unprecedented political sway across the continent, where it inadvertently shapes the media consumption of hundreds of millions of people. Impacts - Region - Swathes - Internet - Users The impacts are amplified in the region because vast swathes of relatively new internet users turn to Facebook first as their primary gateway to the rest of the web. Meanwhile, it's become clear that the attitudes and policies the Menlo Park-based company adopted when it was primarily a U.S. social network are inadequate, or even perilous, when applied in authoritarian states, fragile democracies, or nations with deep ethnic divisions.After months of public outcry in the U.S., Facebook has finally agreed to take seriously charges that the social network played a substantive role in shaping the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Earnings - Call - Week - Zuckerberg - Investors On an earnings call earlier last week, Zuckerberg told investors and reporters "how upset I am that the Russians tried to use our tools to sow mistrust," adding that he was "dead serious" about... (Excerpt) Read more at: Business Insider 0 other people are viewing this story