Facebook: Russian-linked content may have reached 126M during el - ABC-7.com WZVN News for Fort Myers, Cape Coral & Naples, Florida Member Center: Facebook: Russian-linked content may have reached 126M during election Posted: Updated: 
ABC News – Facebook, one of the world’s largest social media networks, will reveal for the first time on Tuesday that Russian-linked content may have reached as many as 126 million people across the platform during the 2016 U.S. presidential election. 
Add Russia Investigation as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Russia Investigation news, video, and analysis from ABC News. 
Facebook’s general counsel Colin Stretch is expected to reveal the finding during testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, which has been investigating Russian meddling in the election, according to draft testimony obtained by ABC News. Mark Zuckerberg 
The company has been under intensifying pressure from Congress to be more transparent about political activities conducted on the online network. Stretch is expected to say that an internal Facebook audit discovered that the fake accounts linked to a Russian company produced 80,000 posts between 2015 and 2017. 
Those posts appeared on the news feeds of 29 million users but may have reached as many as 126 million people because of user activity on the site. 
The finding sheds new light on the scale of Russia’s effort to spread divisive propaganda online during the 2016 presidential race. 
In September, Facebook revealed that it had sold more than $100,000 in political ads to the Internet Research Agency, a “troll farm” in St. Petersburg, which produced roughly 3,000 political ads. Mark Zuckerberg 
Stretch will tell Congress that approximately 11.4 million people saw at least one of those Russian-linked political ads, according to the draft testimony obtained by ABC News. 
The ads promoted fake Facebook pages, which produced the 80,000 pieces of content between January 2015 and August 2017.