We are running a project name, information Technology talent search examination. 
This project is for the students of class 4th to 10th 
We wish, all the schools, the teachers to participate in this event, we wish to collect registrations with the help of this participated teachers and schools. 
We are looking for area coordinator, all over India, in every district and major Taluka places in India. The work of this coordinator is to streamline the entire process of above talent search examination in his area. This coordinator with propose the project, register the school, conduct the examinations and process the completion activities in almost all schools in his area. Area coordinator is responsible for the business developed in his area, but we are offering this job as a freelancer job, a person, male or female, having good communication skill, having his own vehicle, ready to go for field work, having good understanding and interested in working for educational field can apply for this job, with the help of online interview and some required documents, we are going to appoint the area coordinator at various locations in India. 
JOB WORK; 
I wish u2 design a Facebook ad which will display in such a way that we can target our audience to collect registration for examination, invite area coordinator, invite schools to participate and so on... 
We are having the total budget of rupees 10000 to be provided to Facebook and we are expecting around 1000 applications from the persons who are interested in working as freelancers for this exam. 
We are also expecting the way, by which we can develop and increase the brand value of our project information technology talent search examination named as : "ITTSE", so with the help of you, I wish to build and aware a brand named "ITTSE" in public. So that I can have direct enquiries regarding the examination and school registration. 
I wish you to design the ad for Facebook and Instagram, you can develop the theme of design, keywords, target audience, budget as stated above, bid amount, and all as per your skills and experience. 
Questions from your side are most welcome to understand the requirement in most proper way, I am ready to answer each and every question ask by you. As I wish to start this project very immediately, requesting you 2 bid the best you are offering. Hence there may be laser chances for bid correction. 
Bids from Indian vendors are most welcome, as they know the Indian customer psychology and the education system in India. Please find attached the details of our project, for your better understanding.