Millions of US voters saw Russian ads 0:32 Facebook believes millions of Americans saw ads purchased by a Russian group ahead of the 2016 election.
October 4th 2017 a month ago /display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Network News/National/Politics/ Millions of US voters saw Russian ads Social How Russia weaponised social media: Tech giants roasted over Russian political ads Nick Whigham and AFP, news.com.au November 1, 2017 6:45pm
MAJOR tech companies have been hauled in front of the US Senate to explain how they were used by the Russian government to manipulate American citizens and spread “fake news” during the presidential election campaign.
The hearing titled “Extremist Content and Russian Disinformation Online” began on Tuesday in the United States and has shed some light on just how easy it was for foreign interests to exploit the social influence wielded by the likes of Facebook and Google.
Exasperated US senators harshly criticised representatives of Facebook, Twitter and Google overnight for not doing more to prevent Russian agents interfering with the American political process.
Lawyers from each company again admitted that accounts linked to the Russian government were used to amplify fake news, misinformation and spread divisive messages in the lead-up to the US election.
media_camera Colin Stretch, general counsel at Facebook, Sean Edgett, acting general counsel at Twitter, and Richard Salgado, director of law enforcement and information security at Google, take their seats at the start of a Senate Judiciary Subcommittee hearing. Picture: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
According to Facebook’s written testimony, which was leaked to the press ahead of the hearing, 126 million people on Facebook saw ads bought by Russian-linked accounts between June 2015 and May 2017. That number is a lot higher than the 10 million, initially suggested by Facebook.
The company’s general counsel, Colin Stretch, said following the election of Donald Trump much of the content was aimed at raising questions over the legitimacy of the election in an apparent effort to sow unrest.
Mr Stretch also admitted Facebook — which he said currently has “approximately 5 million advertisers on a monthly basis” — was unable to know exactly who each of those advertisers are.
During the hearing, senators fired pointed questions at the tech representatives and waved at cardboard placards displaying outrageous ads, including ads featuring celebrities encouraging people to “vote from home” which was not possible.
media_camera A Twitter post encouraging voters to vote from home which was not possible, displayed behind Senator Richard Blumenthal from New York. Picture: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Some of the most pointed criticism from government officials came over the fact that in some cases the tech giants were aware that political ads were being purchased in Russian currency.
“People are buying ads on your platform with rubles. They are political ads,” the senator from Minnesota Al Franken fumed.
“You put billions of data points together all the time ... Google has all knowledge that man has ever developed. You can’t put together rubles with a political ad and go like, ‘Hmmm, those data points spell out something pretty bad?’”
At one point he shook his head after he couldn’t get all the companies to commit to not accepting political ads bought with North Korean currency.
Meanwhile, Twitter said it uncovered and shut down 2752 accounts linked to Russia’s infamous troll farm, the Internet Research Agency, nearly 14 times as many as it handed over to congressional committees three weeks ago.
The company also found nine Russian accounts that bought ads, most of which came from the state-backed news service RT, previously known as Russia Today .
Google said it found evidence of “limited” misuse of its services by the Russian group, as well as some YouTube channels that were likely backed by Russian agents.
Franken to Facebook: "People are buying ads in RUBLES! You can't put 'rubles plus political ads' together and figure out it's bad?!"
— Sarah Kendzior (@sarahkendzior) October 31, 2017 Al Franken: "Russian money and American political ads. How could you not connect those two dots?"
— Matt Stoller (@matthewstoller) October 31, 2017 media_camera Senator Al Franken throws up his hands in dismay during the hearing. Picture: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Technology company representatives fumbled at points during the hearing, AFP reported.
After Senator Franken pointed out that foreign spending on US political campaigns was illegal, Google’s director of law enforcement and information security, Richard Salgado, said the search giant would refuse political ads paid with foreign currency “if it’s a good enough signal on illegality.”
Facebook also didn’t have much to say in defence of its process of vetting payment for ads.
“In hindsight, we should have had a broader lens,” said Mr Stretch.
The companies all pledged to do more and politely said they understood the seriousness with which politicians were taking the question of Russian meddling.
The Senate Judiciary Committee hearing will continue on Wednesday.
— With AFP
Originally published as Tech giants roasted by Congress
 Social Tech giants roasted by Congress Tech giants roasted by Congress Your porn habits are not secret Your porn habits are not secret Halloween costume divides internet Halloween costume divides internet Can you solve Halloween brain teaser? Can you solve Halloween brain teaser? Upset over cheeseburger emoji Upset over cheeseburger emoji Featured stories Woman photographs ‘UFO’ over Reef Woman photographs ‘UFO’ over Reef ‘Monster’ planet discovery stuns scientists ‘Monster’ planet discovery stuns scientists ‘Looking for someone to die with’ ‘Looking for someone to die with’ Radiation danger after nuclear site collapse Radiation danger after nuclear site collapse First Aussie review: Apple iPhone X premium_icon First Aussie review: Apple iPhone X