Skip in Skip x Embed
x Share
CLOSE Senators are ripping Facebook, Twitter and Google for missing signs that advertisers with ties to Russia were exploiting their services to sway last year's presidential election. (Oct. 31) AP
Kent Walker (R) senior vice president and general counsel for Google Inc, with Colin Stretch (L), general counsel for Facebook and Sean Edgett (C), acting general counsel for Twitter, testifies before the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, Nov. 1, 2017. (Photo: Shawn Thew, EPA-EFE)
CONNECT TWEET 1 LINKEDIN 20 COMMENT EMAIL MORE SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook says a Kremlin-linked influence campaign reached 146 million Americans, significantly more people than the giant social network originally disclosed.
The admission, made by Facebook during a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing Wednesday, widens the scope of the Russia campaign to sow political discord and manipulate the 2016 presidential campaign.
Earlier this week Facebook disclosed that 126 million Americans, a third of the U.S. population, may have been exposed to the Russian campaign. Posts on Instagram add another 20 million people, Facebook's general counsel Colin Stretch told lawmakers.
Facebook, which owns the popular mobile app, says 16 million Instagram users may have seen the Russian posts. An additional 4 million may have seen posts prior to October 2016, Facebook said.
Facebook has twice increased the number of Americans potentially reached by the Internet Research Agency's campaign. At first, it said 10 million people were reached. Then this week it said 126 million people were reached, thanks to users sharing, liking and forwarding the posts.
More: Russian fake accounts showed posts to 126 million Facebook users
More: Russians used Facebook the way other advertisers do: By tapping into its data-mining machine
More: How much reach do Facebook and Twitter have? Data may not be as accurate as you think
More: Facebook makes political ads more transparent ahead of Russia hearings
In the second of three Capitol Hill hearings this week, Facebook, Google and Twitter took fire from senators from both parties for failing to identify and stop the Russian campaign.
"I don't think you get it," Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) told the companies. "What we're talking about is a major foreign power with sophistication and ability to involve themselves in a presidential election and sow conflict and discontent all over this country. We are not going to go away gentlemen. And this is a very big deal."
Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Russian Facebook ads meant to stir dissension in the U.S. Fullscreen Post to Facebook Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Fullscreen Like this topic? You may also like these photo galleries: Replay 1 of 24 2 of 24 3 of 24 4 of 24 5 of 24 6 of 24 7 of 24 8 of 24 9 of 24 10 of 24 11 of 24 12 of 24 13 of 24 14 of 24 15 of 24 16 of 24 17 of 24 18 of 24 19 of 24 20 of 24 21 of 24 22 of 24 23 of 24 24 of 24 Autoplay Show Thumbnails Show Captions Last Slide Next Slide