Mark Molloy 13 November 2017 • 11:59am 
A n artist has criticised Facebook’s bizarre decision to ban photos of her handmade robin redbreast Christmas cards because of their “adult” and “sexual nature”. 
Jackie Charley, who specialises in acrylic artwork , was temporarily blocked from selling her selection of six festive cards, which also feature a squirrel and a deer, on the social network. 
The 52-year-old, from the Scottish Borders, attempted to upload the seasonal images to her Facebook shop five times, but each time received an error message. 
“It looks like we didn't approve your item because we don't allow the sale of adult items or services (e.g. sexual enhancement items or adult videos),” it said. 
The mother-of-two posted in response to the decision: “Hilariously, Facebook has blocked my Christmas cards from becoming a product in my shop due to their shameful, sexual nature!” Jackie Charley received a rejection message from Facebook Credit: Jackie Charley Art 
“I tried to upload my Christmas card range, but they were immediately rejected by Facebook,” she told The Telegraph. 
“I was shocked, and thought there must have been some mistake, so I tried again - several times. Each time I got the same message. 
“There was an option to fill in a form if I disagreed with their verdict, which I did, but without hope that it would ever be seen by a real person and dealt with.” 
T he artist, who only started painting earlier this year so she could stay at home to care for her husband, who suffers from a longstanding medical condition, was later able to upload the images to Facebook without any issues. 
M s Charley says she has “no idea why Facebook blocked the art”, adding it felt like a “David v Goliath battle”. 
“My reaction was a mixture of frustration - because I couldn't get my products into my shop and, therefore, had no immediate way of reaching my network of contacts - and hilarity that Facebook would think my unpretentious artwork was, in any way, provocative!” she added. 
“Some people have suggested that it may have been the word ‘redbreast’ in the product description, but in fact I never used that word: the robin card simply said ‘robin’. End of.” 
She added that the episode suggests that Facebook should review its definition of material considered to be of an ‘adult’ and ‘sexual’ nature. 
“It felt rather like a David and Goliath situation - and the power all rested with Goliath. However, I do think that David might just have the last laugh.” 
A Facebook spokesperson said: “Our team processes millions of images each week, and occasionally we incorrectly prohibit content, as happened here. 
“We approved Jackie’s post as soon as we became aware of our mistake, and are very sorry for the inconvenience caused.” 
The social network backed down after Norwegian author Tom Egeland’s account was suspended when he shared the iconic photo last year. Facebook has apologised for the error Credit: AP 
I n March, an Australian auction house blasted Facebook for ‘censoring’ a nude painting by acclaimed artist Charles Blackman . 
“Adverts must not contain adult content,” its guidelines say. “This includes nudity, depictions of people in explicit or suggestive positions or activities that are overly suggestive or sexually provocative.”