NEW YORK, NY / ACCESSWIRE / November 27, 2017 / Shares of both Twitter and Facebook headed higher this past Friday, with both stocks hitting brand new highs on modest volume compared to usual. Facebook is working on several things including a tech incubator in Nigeria and a tool to help people learn if they had been influenced by fake ads. Twitter has a new feature called Bookmarks that allows users to save Tweets for later.
RDI Initiates Coverage on: 
Facebook, Inc.
https://rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=FB 
Twitter, Inc.
https://rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=TWTR 
Facebook, Inc. shares closed up 1.06% this past Friday, on nearly 9.5 million shares traded. The stock hit a brand new high of $183.15 during intra-day trading. There were several interesting developments with the company last week. Facebook said it is working on a tool that will help people to learn if they have been influenced by fake ads sponsored by Russia-based Internet Research Agency in the period from January 2015 to August 2017. It will be available by the end of the year for some users. Facebook also said it would be launching a tech incubator in Nigeria sometime in 2018, where it will help develop technology startups and provide digital training to 50,000 Nigerians. It was also revealed last week that famed investor Peter Thiel, who invested early on into the company, has sold 73% of his stake. 
Access RDI's Facebook, Inc. Research Report at: 
https://rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=FB 
Twitter, Inc. shares closed up 0.67% this past Friday and also hit a brand new high of $22.48 during intra-day trading. News revealed last week that the company's new "save for later" feature for Tweets has a name and it's called Bookmarks. According to news that was revealed in a series of Tweets from Tina Koyama, a staff product designer who works for the company, Twitter has picked out different versions of how the Bookmarks will appear. A Twitter spokesperson declined to comment but did say, "We'll be sure to let you know if/when we have more details to share in terms of a formal announcement!" Koyama wrote, "You told us that you want Tweets you've bookmarked to be private, so only you can see it. We kept this in mind while creating designs for the feature." The Bookmarks will be saved privately but there will be an option if Twitter users want to be able to share them later in a Tweet.
Access RDI's Twitter, Inc. Research Report at: 
https://rdinvesting.com/news/?ticker=TWTR 
Our Actionable Research on Facebook, Inc. (NASDAQ: FB ) and Twitter, Inc. (NYSE: TWTR ) can be downloaded free of charge at Research Driven Investing.
Research Driven Investing 
We are committed to providing relevant and actionable information for the self-directed investor. Our research is reputed for being a leader in trusted, in-depth analysis vital for informed strategic trading decisions. The nimble investor can leverage our analysis and collective expertise to execute a disciplined approach to stock selection.
RDInvesting has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document.
Disclaimer: This article is written by an independent contributor of RDInvesting.com and reviewed by Nadia Noorani, CFA® charter holder. RDInvesting.com is neither a registered broker dealer nor a registered investment advisor. For more information please read our full disclaimer at www.rdinvesting.com/disclaimer . 
CONTACT 
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly at:
Address:
Research Driven Investing, Unit #901 511 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY, 10011
Email: 
[email protected] 
CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute. SOURCE: RDInvesting.com