Facebook wants nude photos from Australian users—for a good reason November 8, 2017 by Brett Molina, Usa Today 
Facebook's latest attempt to wipe revenge porn off its platform: asking users to send their own nude photos. 
The Australian government's Office of the eSafety Commissioner announced it is joining a pilot program with Facebook to prevent intimate images of users from appearing against their will on the social network's platform . 
The unusual catch: users worried an inappropriate image might appear on Facebook's platforms are asked to send an intimate image via Messenger, a preventive measure designed to flag the images before they're shared. 
Facebook did not respond to requests for comment. 
According to the eSafety Office, if a Facebook user in Australia is concerned about an intimate image spreading online, they fill out a form, then send the image to themselves using Messenger. 
Once Facebook is notified, they use image-matching technology to prevent anyone from sharing it on their platforms. 
"This partnership gives Australians a unique opportunity to proactively inoculate themselves from future image-based abuse by coming to our portal and reporting tool," said Julie Inman Grant, Australia's eSafety Commissioner, in a statement. 
The limited pilot program is available in three other countries: the U.S., U.K., and Canada. 
In April, Facebook detailed plans to fight revenge porn , including an artificial intelligence tool capable of matching photos to prevent them from appearing on platforms like Messenger or Instagram. 
"These tools, developed in partnership with global safety experts, are one example of how we're using new technology to keep people safe and prevent harm," said Antigone Davis, Facebook's head of global safety, in a statement. 
According to Australia's eSafety office, 1 in 5 Australians has faced image-based abuse, where an intimate photo has been posted to social media without their consent. 
"This pilot has the potential to disable the control and power perpetrators hold over victims, particularly in cases of ex-partner retribution and sextortion, and the subsequent harm that could come to them," said Inman Grant. 
Two years ago, Twitter and Reddit cracked down on revenge porn, banning the practice on both platforms. Facebook ramps up fight against 'revenge porn' April 5, 2017 
Facebook on Wednesday unleashed a new weapon in the war against "revenge porn" at the leading social network as well as the messaging services Messenger and Instagram. Not just 'revenge porn' – image-based abuse hits 1 in 5 Australians May 8, 2017 
The first comprehensive research on "revenge porn" has revealed the mass scale of victimisation across Australia, with one in five people suffering image-based abuse, according to a study by Monash University and RMIT University. Research finds a majority endorsing revenge porn March 2, 2017 
Research by psychologists at the University of Kent has found that a majority of people would endorse the use of revenge porn and that those who actually post it have a distinct personality profile. Facebook offers Indian women tools to protect privacy June 22, 2017 
Facebook has introduced new security features for women using the social media platform in India, including the ability to prevent strangers from downloading their profile pictures, the company said Thursday. Facebook to show NFL game recaps worldwide September 26, 2017 
Facebook and the National Football League announced plans Tuesday to offer video highlights of NFL games to worldwide users of the leading social network. Facebook is fighting social media identity theft in India, but it's a global problem August 1, 2017 
Every Facebook account comes with a profile picture, but how can we prevent these often personal photos from being stolen? Recommended for you Privacy fears over artificial intelligence as crimestopper November 12, 2017 
Police in the US state of Delaware are poised to deploy "smart" cameras in cruisers to help authorities detect a vehicle carrying a fugitive, missing child or straying senior. Fruit fly brains inform search engines of the future November 9, 2017 
Every day, websites you visit and smartphone apps that you use are crunching huge sets of data to find things that resemble each other: products that are similar to your past purchases; songs that are similar to tunes you've ... Transfer technique produces wearable gallium nitride gas sensors November 9, 2017 
A transfer technique based on thin sacrificial layers of boron nitride could allow high-performance gallium nitride gas sensors to be grown on sapphire substrates and then transferred to metallic or flexible polymer support ... Researchers devise an algorithm to combat gerrymandering November 8, 2017 
As the Supreme Court considers Gill v. Whitford, a challenge to the practice of partisan gerrymandering that may rewrite the rules used to draw congressional districts, a team of computer scientists has come up with a new ... Research could 'untangle' vexing problem in computer-simulation technology November 8, 2017 
The computer simulations used to design, optimize, test or control a vast range of objects and products in our daily lives are underpinned by finite element methods. A robotic spy among the fish November 8, 2017 
A new miniature robot developed by EPFL researchers can swim with fish, learn how they communicate with each other and make them change direction or come together. These capabilities have been proven on schools of zebrafish.