Facebook (FB) a Buy on Superior Earnings Visibility FB stock a buy   2, 2017, 8:30 am EDT Get FB alerts: View All Posts 
Facebook Inc (NASDAQ: FB) is a $516.4 billion in market value member of the Internet Software & Services GICS industry group where Portfolio Grader's current ranking for FB puts it 47 among the 133 companies in this industry group, placing it in the top half. FB is ranked in the top half of the sector with a ranking of 246 among the 708 companies in the sector and number 1,289 in the 5000 company Portfolio Grader company universe. 
FB is rated as a Buy using the approach of Louis Navellier for investing and his Portfolio Grader stock evaluator. FB has maintained this ranking for the last month. 
The Information Technology sector is ranked number 4 among the 12 sectors in the Portfolio Grader universe putting it in the second quartile of all the GICS sectors. The Internet Software & Services industry group is ranked 24   near the average   
Facebook has earned above-average scores in 6 of the 8 fundamental areas appraised by Portfolio Grader and average or below-average grades in 2 of the areas used in the ranking of company stocks. 
FB's operational scores are a source of strength with a ranking for sales growth, operating margin and earnings growth that are well above average. Scores for visibility of earnings are mixed, with a ranking for earnings revisions and earnings surprises that are better than average, while the score for earnings momentum is worse than average. FB's score for return on equity is much better than its industry group average but its grade for cash flow is below-average. These fundamental scores give Facebook a position in the top decile of the industry group. 
The Navellier Proprietary Quantitative Score is used by Portfolio Grader to measure FB's shares from the perspective of risk/reward. This unique scoring methodology weighs the relative value of FB's   Considering this risk/reward calculation, the company currently scores above- //investorplace.com/2017/11/facebook-fb-a-buy-on-superior-earnings-visibility-2/. 
©2017 InvestorPlace Media, LLC