Gaming DISH THE DIRT Facebook wants to stop revenge porn by getting people to send in their sexy pics BEFORE they are uploaded by vengeful exes 
Zuckerberg's firm wants anyone who fears being exposed to submit the pictures so they can be tagged, recognised using image recognition software and automatically deleted By Jasper Hamill 2nd November 2017, 11:16 am Updated: 2nd November 2017, 3:17 pm Comments FACEBOOK wants to stop revenge porn BEFORE it happens - by getting people to send in their own naughty sex pictures. 
The social network is testing a system which uses image recognition to identify revenge porn and automatically delete it. Getty Images Social media makes it terrifyingly easy to spread revenge porn 
But this can only work if Facebook has copies of the dirty pictures in the first place. 
Zuckerberg's firm is running a pilot scheme in Australia and has teamed up with the Office of the eSafety Commissioner to trial its new idea. 
Julie Inman Grant, e-Safety Commissioner, said people who were worried about " image-based abuse " should give Facebook their sexy pics. 
"It would be like sending yourself your image in email, but obviously this is a much safer, secure end-to-end way of sending the image without sending it through the ether," she told ABC. Getty Images Would you be willing to send pictures like this to Facebook? 
She reassured potential revenge porn victims that the pictures wouldn't be kept forever. 
"They're not storing the image, they're storing the link and using artificial intelligence and other photo-matching technologies," Grant said. BOOK OF STRIFE Simple Facebook trick could let anyone crack into YOUR account – and reveal all your secrets 
"So if somebody tried to upload that same image, which would have the same digital footprint or hash value, it will be prevented from being uploaded." 
In a statement, Antigone Davis, Facebook head of global safety, said "the safety and well-being of the Facebook community is our top priority". Teen: revenge porn ruined my life 
“As part of our continued efforts to better detect and remove content that violates our community standards, we’re using image matching technology to prevent non-consensual intimate images from being shared on Facebook," she continued. 
“These tools, developed in partnership with global safety experts, are one example of how we’re using new technology to keep people safe and prevent harm.” MORE FACEBOOK STORIES Facebook anti-terror chief says attempts to ban WhatsApp encryption will FAIL SNIPECHAT Jeremy Hunt blames social media giants for rise in teen depression and self harm UNSOCIAL MEDIA Facebook admits 126 MILLION people saw Russian ads ahead of Senate grilling BOOK OF STRIFE Here's the proof that Facebook really IS ruining your life YUM YUM From bacon avo eggs to spag bol cakes...Facebook food channel opens for delivery AD TO HAPPEN Twitter bows to pressure with plans to label political ads and who is targeted THAT ZUCKS Facebook won't say if it will give MPs info on Russian meddling with UK election TWO FACED-BOOK Facebook splits news feed in two in experiment which could change it forever HALF BAKED Facebook accused of letting kids watch videos about cooking with CANNABIS NET RAPE CLAIM Oxford don denies raping author after she accused him on Facebook slavery storm School sparks outrage by posting Facebook photo of young black girl on leash Topics