in General 
Carolyn Everson, the Facebook executive responsible for BRAND SAFETY is responding to members of our community to deny... Posted by Sleeping Giants on Tuesday, October 31, 2017 If you can't beat 'em, censor 'em... That seems to increasingly be the rallying cry of Silicon Valley's left-leaning (understatement, we know) social media giants after Twitter recently announced plans to ban RT and Facebook is apparently now considering the same with Breitbart. Report - Business - Insider - Facebook - Breitbart According to a report from Business Insider, Facebook said they're "looking into" calls to cut off Breitbart advertising on their social media network after an "anti-Breitbart, online activist group Sleeping Giants" logged repeated requests demanding such actions.Facebook said Thursday that it's looking into calls to cut off the far-right website Breitbart from its ad network. Confirmation - Business - Insider - Email - Facebook The confirmation to Business Insider comes after an email from Facebook marketing VP Carolyn Everson was sent Wednesday to members of the anti-Breitbart, online activist group Sleeping Giants.Since late last year, calls to blacklist Breitbart from ad networks have been rallied by the anonymous Sleeping Giants group, which shared the recent email from Facebook's Everson acknowledging the complaints with Business Insider. News - Giants - Ads - Complies - Community That said, luckily it's not all bad news. After assuring Sleeping Giants that Facebook "proactively" and "reactively" reviews ads to make sure content complies with "Community Standards or Audience Network policies," Facebook's marketing VP, Carolyn Everson, also reminded the activist group that "publishers whose content you may disagree with may be allowed to continue within the Audience Network"...which we suspect may be considered a microaggression and/or outright hate crime but we're still awaiting confirmation.Thank you for raising this issue. The concerns of both your organization and advertisers are incredibly important to us. Advertisers - Control - Publishers - Ads - Transparency We give advertisers control over which publishers their ads appear on. That's why we recently announced pre-campaign transparency, so advertisers can see where their ads may run. They can also block any site or app they don't want their ads to run on.However,...   www.zerohedge.com 1