News Facebook rape monster who blackmailed youngsters into sickening sex acts has sentence extended Paul Leighton, from Durham, posed as a young girls on Facebook to launch a sinister campaign of rape and blackmail Share Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
A twisted Facebook monster who targeted youngsters across the globe in a sick campaign of sex abuse and blackmail has had his jail sentence extended. 
Posing as a young girl, predator Paul Leighton targeted as many as 100 youngsters as far afield as the USA, Canada and Australia through 30 to 40 social media accounts. 
The spray painter sickeningly coerced a 14-year-old boy in Florida to repeatedly rape his baby niece in one disgusting episode, and youngsters were tricked into sending him nude pictures. 
These were then used as blackmail, with Leighton threatening to post the images and videos unless his victims carried out his disgusting desires. 
Leighton admitted three counts of rape in the Florida case despite never having been near the youngster himself, and was initially jailed for 16 years at Newcastle Crown Court for a string of offences. 
These included blackmail, rape, causing a child to engage in sexual activity, making indecent photographs of a child, sexual assault, distributing indecent images of a child and possession of an indecent video. Paul Leighton's phone (Image: PA) 
But the twisted pervert has now had his sentence extended to 20 years with a seven year licence period, after the sentence was referred to the Court of Appeal for being unduly lenient. 
Speaking in court on Thursday, Solicitor General Robert Buckland QC MP said: “This is a deeply disturbing and serious case. 
“Leighton callously targeted vulnerable children and subjected them to a series of threats, frightening them into complying with his sexual demands. 
“Such terrible offending deserves a tougher punishment and this increased sentence takes into account the seriousness of this offending.” 
Leighton, 32, from Malvern Crescent, Seaham , County Durham , was arrested in November by police investigating reports he had exchanged indecent images on Facebook. Read More Facebook monster who raped a baby 4,000 miles away in a sinister campaign may have 100 victims 
When officers examined his phone they found evidence that as many as 100 children had been abused. 
Leighton set up multiple fake profiles of young girls on Facebook , then joined groups for teenagers. He would make contact with them and get them to send indecent photos of themselves. 
Previous court hearing heard how Leighton blackmailed two British teenage girls and also sexually abused a nine-year-old girl living in the North East of England. 
The FBI is investigating other victims Leighton may have targeted, after US authorities charged the 14-year-old from Florida for the repeatedly raping his one-year-old niece. 
Speaking on the decision to extend Leighton’s sentence, detective inspector Angela Hufton of Northumbria Police Safeguarding Department, said: “We are pleased by the decision from the Court of Appeal and satisfied with the increased sentence handed down to Leighton. 
“This man had planned and carried out truly horrendous crimes against children over a sustained period. Many of his victims are still suffering the terrible results of his crime and will carry this burden with them throughout their lives. Read More How you can talk to children about abuse without mentioning sex 
“Our officers worked with Homeland Security in the US as the devastating scale of his offences fully emerged during the investigation. This latest court case again shows just how vigilant young people and their families must be to stay safe against such calculated criminal activity. 
“We hope the many families who have been victims of Leighton will now feel that justice has been done and will be able to start to move forward with their lives. 
“People need to be vigilant and aware of the risks because cowardly predators like Paul Leighton do hide behind their computer screen and target vulnerable people. 
“This case shows to you that we will find these individuals, we will put them before the court and they will be put behind bars for a long time.” 
Anyone who feels they have been a victim of a cyber-crime , or feels that they may have been groomed online, can contact police on 101 or Victims First Northumbria on 0800 011 3116. Like us on Facebook