Senators pressed top officials from Facebook, Google and Twitter for answers Tuesday about the steps the social media companies have taken to address Russian use of social media to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election . Interested in Russia Investigation? Add Russia Investigation as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Russia Investigation news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Russia Investigation Add Interest “This is the national security challenge of the 21st century,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham , R-S.C., who led the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing.
Representatives for all three companies slammed Russian use of the platforms and pledged to continue working to combat the continuing threat, highlighting policy changes made since the 2016 election.
“We take what happened on Facebook very seriously. The foreign interference that we saw was reprehensible,” said Facebook’s general counsel Colin Stretch, who told the committee that Facebook plans to add 10,000 employees to its security team by 2018.
Facebook revealed the scale of the Russian campaign in advance testimony Monday, saying that Russian-linked content may have reached as many as 126 million Americans on the platform during the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
In September, Facebook revealed that it had sold more than $100,000 in political ads to the Internet Research Agency, a “troll farm” in St. Petersburg, Russia, which produced roughly 3,000 political ads.
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, said that his staff reviewed the 3,000 Facebook ads, and said the ads “do not support a specific candidate, either Republican or Democrat,” and were meant to sow division and discord over social issues.
“These ads are clearly intended to worsen racial tensions and possibly violence in those cities. It might be true that these ads were intended to influence elections but it's important to be clear that the nature of the ads,” he said.
Facebook’s Stretch said 90 percent of the ads were issue based, leaving 10 percent on specific candidates. Additionally 75 percent of the ads targeted the U.S. as a whole, and 25 percent targeted specific states.
Ahead of Tuesday's hearing, Twitter said it uncovered 2,752 accounts linked to the Internet Research Agency -- more than 10 times the number first disclosed to Congress.
Google identified two accounts linked to the Russian troll farm that spent $4,700 on ads on Google platforms, and 18 Youtube channels linked to the Russian campaign.
On Tuesday, senators displayed examples of some of the Russian ads and content Facebook and Twitter have turned over to congressional committees in recent weeks.
Sen. Chris Coons , D-Delaware, displayed an ad from the group called “Heart of Texas” that criticized Hillary Clinton ’s support of veterans, and called for “the American army” to “be withdrawn from Hillary’s control” if she became president. Another ad was for a “Miners for Trump” event in Pennsylvania.
“Senator, that advertisement has no place on Facebook,” Stretch said. “It’s upsetting, it makes me angry.”
Sen. Richard Blumenthal , D-Conn., displayed a fake tweet that urged Twitter users to vote from home, and said it raised questions about potential voter suppression.
Sen. Blumenthal displayed a Russian-linked add provided by Twitter that encouraged users to vote from home: pic.twitter.com/pxHdh5NwKr
— Ben Siegel (@benyc) October 31, 2017
At several points, the senators grew frustrated with the witnesses.
Sen. Al Franken , D-Minnesota, pressed Facebook on why the company hadn't picked up earlier that Russians were buying political ads with "rubles."
"It's a signal we should have been alert to," Stretch said.
Sen. John Kennedy, R-Louisiana, pushed Facebook to admit that it doesn't know all of its advertisers.
"I want to run some ads and let's go through four shell corporations because I want to hide my identity, you're telling me you have the ability to ... trace through all of these corporations and find the true identity of every one of your advertisers?" he asked.
"To your question about seeing essentially behind the platform to understand if there are shell corporations, of course the answer is no. We cannot see behind the activity," Stretch replied.
Google, Twitter and Facebook's representatives wouldn't commit to supporting Sen. Amy Klobuchar 's bipartisan legislation with Sens. Mark Warner , D-Virginia, and John McCain , R-Arizona, to toughen disclosure rules for internet political ads.
“We certainly support the goals of the legislation,” Google’s Richard Salgado told lawmakers, while stopping short of endorsing it.
Warner and Klobuchar sat down with ABC News' Mary Bruce Tuesday and created their own fake political ads on Facebook, to show how easy it is without new regulations.
"We are showing that despite these upgrades, it is still going on," Klobuchar said.
"Americans need to know the source of the political ads, whether it’s American or foreign, we ought to be able to go look at the content that’s being used for and against candidates," Warner said. "This really goes to the heart of protecting our democracy."
 Facebook, Twitter, Google testify on Russian election interference NYC Trump suggests sending NYC terror suspect to Guantanamo prison House tax plan would lower caps on 401(k)s, cut state and local deductions Facebook, World leaders join in support of US after deadly NYC terror attack Man killed, teacher freed in California school standoff Scathing report blames crew errors for deadly Navy collisions 7 arrests outside Yiannopoulos' speech at California college Meth found in child's Halloween candy 'looked like Pop Rocks' Fellow soldiers, intelligence analyst testify in Bergdahl's defense George Trump's Bannon urged Trump to slow down Mueller: Sources Why collusion doesn't matter in the Trump-Russia investigation House Republicans delay tax plan rollout Trump faltering on domestic terror, Sen. Graham suggests ANALYSIS: Dems holding their fire in the face of Russia investigation White House releases official Trump portrait Casino renames Besh steakhouse after harassment allegations Lawyer: Ousted Catalan leader won't go to Madrid UK's May orders probe into harassment claims against deputy Putin arrives in Iran for talks with Tehran, Azerbaijan 'Major terrorist attack' thwarted with Syrian's arrest, German authorities say EPA blocks some scientists from serving on advisory boards Suspect captured in killing of University of Utah student: Police Unanswered questions in Robert Mueller's Russia investigation What's next in the Mueller investigation New documents outline why Manafort, Gates were feared as flight risks Wendy Williams addresses 'scary' fall on national TV In key step, Hamas gives up control of Gaza border crossings Houston's 'Mattress Mack' sends Hurricane Harvey first responders to the World Series Wendy Williams faints on live TV after overheating Comedian releases novel inspired by his Irish roots Female high school quarterback throws TD on 1st pass in varsity game