Submissions must be primarily news and developments relating to technology 
Self posts must contribute positively to /r/technology and foster reasonable discussion. 
Submissions relating to business and politics must be sufficiently within the context of technology in that they either view the events from a technological standpoint or analyse the repercussions in the technological world. Please do not submit the following: 
i) Submissions violating the guidelines. 
ii) Images, audio or videos: Articles with supporting image and video content are allowed; if the text is only there to explain the media, then it is not suitable. A good rule of thumb is to look at the URL; if it's a video hosting site, or mentions video in the URL, it's not suitable. 
iii) Requests for tech support, questions or help: submit to /r/techsupport , /r/AskTechnology , another relevant community or our weekly Support Saturday threads. 
iv) Petitions, Surveys or Crowdfunding - submissions of this nature will be removed. 
v) Submissions discussing the subreddit itself; they should be submitted to /r/TechnologyTalk , or messaged to the moderators of the subreddit . 
vi) Submissions discussing one or more incidents of customer support. 
vii) Mobile versions of sites, url shorteners: please directly submit the desktop version of a webpage in all cases. 2. Behaviour Remember the human You are advised to abide by reddiquette ; it will be enforced when user behavior is no longer deemed to be suitable for a technology forum. Remember; personal attacks, abusive language, trolling or bigotry in any form are therefore not allowed and will be removed. 3. Titles 
Submissions must use either the articles and optionally a subtitle. Or, if neither are accurate, a suitable quote, which must: 
adequately describe the content 
adequately describe the content's relation to technology 
be free of user editorialization or alteration of meaning. 4. Flair Please flair your submission appropriately. An extended guide to flairing can be found here, in the wiki . 5. Reddit-wide rules. All reddit-wide rules apply here . Do not post personal information; no facebook or social media links. Do not spam . Miscellanea 
Want to host an AMA? Please message the moderators . 
Our /u/AutoModerator configuration may be viewed here . 
Removed threads will either be given a removal reason flair or comment response; please message the moderators if this did not occur. 
All legitimate, answerable modmail inquiries or suggestions will be answered to the best of our abilities within a reasonable period of time. 
Rule violators will be warned. Repeat offenders will be temporarily banned from one to seven days. An unheeded final warning will result in a permanent ban. This may be reversed upon evidence of suitable behavior. Related Subreddits