Facebook will require full transparency for political advertisers - and other businesses too by Janice Sanchez — Oct 30, 2017 Share: 
Goldman said Facebook will use machine learning to ferret out political advertisers who aren't disclosing their identities. 
Facebook in September announced a plan to increase "transparency" regarding political advertising and hire more than 1,000 people to thwart deceptive ads crafted to knock elections off course including "dark" messages crafted for specific demographic groups but invisible to others. 
Facebook said it was expanding the transparency measures to all ads , and that they would all have to be linked to a page. 
"We did not come to this decision lightly, and are taking this step now as part of our ongoing commitment to help protect the integrity of the user experience on Twitter ", Twitter's public policy team said in a statement Thursday. 
On the same day that Facebook proclaimed the new advertising rule, Senator Dianne Feinstein sent a letter to Facebook and to Twitter to request more information about Russian activities and advertisers. 
Starting next month, people will be able to click "View Ads " on a Page and view ads a Page is running on Facebook , Instagram and Messenger - whether or not the person viewing is in the intended target audience for the ad. "We don't - and have never - used your microphone for ads ", he tweeted. The work is starting in Canada , he noted, because of election integrity efforts already underway by Facebook in the country. 
Tests for the new tools would start in Canada , with a goal of having them in place in the U.S. ahead of the midterm elections, in November 2018. 
Facebook will also require political advertisers to verify their identities and will require them to include a disclosure in election-related ads that reads: "Paid for by". 
We know how important it is to our community that we get this feature just right - and so we're first rolling it out in only one country. 
Some 470 accounts spent a total of approximately $100,000 between June 2015 to May 2017 on ads that touted fake or misleading news, according to Facebook . "Testing in one market allows us to learn the various ways an entire population uses the feature at a scale that allows us to learn and iterate". We are starting with federal elections in the United States, and will progress from there to additional contests and elections in other countries and jurisdictions. As part of the documentation process, Facebook said that advertisers would not only be required to identify that they are running election-related advertising, but also verify both their entity and location. 
By clicking on the "paid for by" disclosure, users would be able to see more details about the advertiser, he added. 
"We show ads based on people's interests and other profile information - not what you're talking out loud about". Share: