Facebook bans sale of charming handmade Christmas cards due to 'adult content' Ella Wills Tweet Share 'Robin redbreast': The controversial robin design that Facebook said was too 'sexual' for sale: Jackie Charley More Facebook has blocked the sale of three Christmas cards featuring painted woodland creatures because they contained "sexual" and "adult content". Artist Jackie Charley, 52, tried to upload the festive greetings card designs including a red robin, a squirrel and a stag to her online shop on the social media website last month. But Facebook would not allow the sale of the products, and said the reason was because they "don't allow the sale of adult items". In a message to the artist explaining the decision, Facebook wrote: "It looks like we didn't approve your item because we don't allow the sale of adult items or services (e.g. sexual enhancement items or adult videos)." The second design from the artist that was blocked by the social media website (Jackie Charley) More It was the first time that Mrs Charley, from Denholm in the Scottish Borders, had tried selling her Bothycrafts products on Facebook. She said she uploaded another set of cards without any issue later that day on October 27. In a post on Facebook, the artist said she could not "stop laughing" after she learnt that the company thought they were "shameful" and "sexual". After sharing the news with her customers, Mrs Charley said some buyers suggested the block could be due to the robin's 'redbreast'. However, she insisted: "That word was never included in my description of the card - it was simply robin." This stag also featured among the seasonal designs from Bothycrafts (Jackie Charley) More A mother-of-two, Mrs Charley sells homemade crafts as a means to support her family, as her husband suffers from a long-standing medical condition. She said she was "very frustrated" as the business is her only source of income. "It seemed a bit of a David and Goliath situation which left me feeling quite powerless," she said. Mrs Charley said she repeatedly tried to get Facebook to allow the sale of the cards, but she was rejected every time. She has been redirecting potential buyers to her Etsy shop, Bothycraftstudio. The cards were sold as part of a pack of six original Christmas designs, each based on Mrs Charley's own artwork using acrylic paints on canvas. They featured an image of each animal on an abstract background. The firm is reportedly investigating the incident, according to the MailOnline. Reblog