Facebook Boss Concedes Tech Doesn’t Add to Job Growth Nov 11, 2017 Follow 
Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg recently conceded that technology does not add more jobs to the economy, but it does increase pay for tech workers who undergo extra training to keep up with innovations affecting the industry. 
The Facebook CEO made the remarks during a trip to a wind farm in Oklahoma, which was the last stop in his 2017 tour across the nation. Zuckerberg said that the latest visit completed his Year of Travel challenge, an effort to visit all U.S. states he has so far failed to visit. 
He promised to tell what he has learned during this year’s tour on Friday in a live Q&A session in Kansas. The billionaire tech entrepreneur has also discussed the impact of technology on Americans’ lives. 
Zuckerberg, who features as the fifth richest person in Forbes’ billionaires list, acknowledged that many people are concerned that tech innovations like automation, driverless cars, or artificial intelligence could destroy jobs. Zuckerberg: Tech Doesn’t Create More Jobs 
He added that he has seen technology both creating and destroying U.S. jobs during his year-long tour, but he thinks that the “common dynamic” nationwide is that the number of jobs remains unchanged as long as people are getting trained to keep up with a rapidly changing industry. The silver lining to the issue is that those experts usually get more pay. 
Various studies, on the other hand, have contradicted Zuckerberg’s claims that tech can keep the number of jobs steady. Several academics warned that technological advances could trim jobs across many industries in coming decades. 
In Oklahoma, the Facebook chief also praised the progress made in the green energy industry by local authorities. The Sooner State has been historically associated with gas and oil production as it is the third largest producer of gas in the U.S. 
Zuckerberg expressed confidence that Oklahoma could soon morph into the United States’ largest producer of clean energy after Texas.