Facebook, Twitter, Google Criticized During Hearing For Inaction Against Disinformation 01 November 2017 Tweets 
The United States Senate Intelligence Committee heard testimony from social media giants on Wednesday about how Russian operatives were able to provoke Americans into real life action thanks to the websites, according to BBC News. 
One May 2016 protest was arranged by a group named the Heart of Texas, but it was a secretly run by Russian operatives as an attempt to destabilize the American electoral process. 
Legal counsel for Facebook, Twitter, and Google were criticized by a number of senators that they were highly underestimating the problems presented by the disinformation campaign. 
"You just don't get it," said Democrat California Senator Dianne Feinstein. "What we’re talking about is a cataclysmic change. What we’re talking about is the beginning of cyber warfare." 
Feinstein warned, "We are not going to go away, gentleman. This is a very big deal." 
After previously denying effects on their platform, Facebook admitted earlier this week that 126 million people may have been touched by Russian propaganda efforts using a combination of paid advertisements and what are called "organic" posts that often spread much further since other users can unknowingly share the content. 
Facebook also added more to that number by revealing that another 16 million users may have been reached through the photo-sharing app Instagram which Facebook owns. 
The organic posts received the most scrutiny from the Senate Intelligence Committee, with Democrat Senator Mark Warner, the committee's deputy chairman, pointing to how the Russian-constructed Heart of Texas group was able to reach 250,000 followers. "I have more than a little bit of frustration that many of us on this committee have been raising this issue since the beginning of this year and our claims were frankly blown off by the leaderships of your companies," Warner said. "Candidly, your companies know more about Americans than the United States government does and the idea that you had no idea that any of this was happening strains my credibility." 
Facebook believes that the group was actually run out of St. Petersburg by Russian operatives but that it was able to create an event held at the Islamic culture center in Houston titled "Stop Islamization of Texas." 
The protest took place along with a counterprotest, but local media reported that no organizers for the event "could be found." 
Another example of the propaganda was an account that shared "benign" posts about Christianity morphing into an explicitly anti-Hillary Clinton group once it reached a certain mass of users. 
Twitter was also highly criticized for under-reporting the extent of automated bots on its network, with figures that independent data scientists say are still too low. 
Twitter's lawyer Sean Edgett said they research suggested that less than 5% of its 330 million users were bots, but Sen. Warner said other researchers said the figure was much higher at 12-15%. 
All of the social media companies said they were concerned about being used for spreading "fake news" across the internet. 
"We cannot defeat this evolving shared threat alone," Facebook's lawyer Colin Stretch said. 
However, when senators asked if the companies would commit to supporting the Honest Ads Act, which calls for a regulation on online advertising that would focus on more transparency concerning political advertising, none would fully commit. Related Tweets 
Twitter's Edgett said the company was still "fine-tuning" the proposals to support its goals. 
Several senators expressed their frustration at the companies, who had months to prepare for the hearing, and said that more hearings and consultation would be needed that would involve higher-ranking executives. 
"I'm disappointed that your here, and not your CEOs," said independent senator Angus King. "If we go through this exercise again we should appreciate seeing the top people." 
Democrat Senator Joe Manchin also said, "I wish your CEOs were here, they have to answer to this." 
"I'm certain that our adversaries are learning from the Russian activities and even watching us today," Sen. Burr said. "Simply put, you must do better to protect the American people, and frankly, all of your users from this kind of manipulation." 
- WN.com , Maureen Foody