By Max A. Cherney
Zuckerberg says security hiring efforts 'will significantly impact our profitability going forward'
The Russian rubles spent in an effort to tilt the 2016 U.S. election could cost Facebook Inc. a big chunk of its profits.
Amid a congressional inquiry into Russia-backed election activity on Facebook's platform (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/house-committee-releases-messages-russia-designed-to-divide-americans-2017-11-01), the social networking company announced Thursday more than $10 billion in quarterly revenue, nearly half of that counting as net profit. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said that fat margin won't last for long, though, as the company doubles down on its safety and security strategy and increases the number of employees working on the issue to 20,000.
"I am dead serious about this, and the reason I'm talking about this on our earnings call is that I've directed our teams to invest so much in security on top of the other investments we're making that it will significantly impact our profitability going forward," Zuckerberg said.
Investors sent Facebook (FB) stock higher after seeing the big earnings beat, but shares eventually dipped about 2% in late trading after Zuckerberg and other executives laid out their plans to spend massive amounts in the coming years to combat outside influences and grow the business.
Facebook executives gave specific numbers on the call, saying that its full-year capital expenditures would roughly double to $14 billion in 2018, up from $7 billion this year. Chief Financial Officer David Wehner said that Facebook's focus on security, its video platform--which is essentially a competitor to Alphabet Inc.'s (GOOGL) (GOOGL) YouTube--and long-run bets such as Oculus virtual reality hardware and machine learning will contribute to reducing its operating margins.
To do so, Wehner said, "we expect to make substantial investments in our infrastructure to support growth and improve our products."
The cost of Zuckerberg's security push will be spread across a number of line items on its budget, namely research and development, general administration and expenses, as well as the advertising sales and marketing line item, Wehner said.
Don't miss:Two ways Facebook can grow even larger (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/facebook-earnings-two-ways-the-social-networking-titan-can-grow-even-larger-2017-10-30)
Ahead of increased costs, Facebook ads cost a lot more in the third quarter, a more important driver of revenue growth than in prior quarters. Executives said that the average price per ad jumped 35% because of a slowing amount of new ad inventory, which has caused advertisers to bid up the price.
When asked by an analyst Facebook executives said that the growth in ad price wasn't because they were selling more video advertisements within its new Watch product or elsewhere. Instead, they noted that Facebook's targeting improved, as well as the feedback it can give advertisers, which also allowed it to charge more.
One previously unannounced detail about the company's $10.14 billion in ad revenue from 6 million active advertisers was that most of it comes from small- and medium-size businesses, Forrester analyst Melissa Parrish said.
"The point here was that, though a handful of companies control a very large budget, the individual tiny budgets add up to a ton of revenue," Parrish said in a telephone interview late Wednesday. "It was the first time [executives] emphasized the small- and medium-size businesses in a robust and focused way.
See: Russian ads targeted users by race, religion, politics, Facebook data shows (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/russian-ads-targeted-users-by-race-religion-politics-facebook-data-shows-2017-11-01)
"It was part of the conversation, and it's not all about the Cokes and Pepsis."
Parrish speculated that one of the reasons Facebook chose to point out the long-tail clients was that large ad buyers have begun to question the value of targeted and programmatic advertising online.
In terms of Facebook's bet on video, which includes lucrative ads that are likely too expensive for many small- and mid-sized companies, Zuckerberg said that the company wasn't exactly sure what sorts of content it would offer and planned to spend some of its cash to figure out what would work.
Read also: Apple's Tim Cook warns of divisive effect of fake news, pushes for tax reform (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/apples-tim-cook-warns-of-divisive-effect-of-fake-news-pushes-for-tax-reform-2017-11-01)
"We will probably experiment with a number of different things," Zuckerberg said on the call when asked by an analyst about what content will work for Facebook. "I do think your point is right that not all kinds of content can be supported by ads, no matter how effective we make them."
Video ads, however, are not likely to attract the smaller companies that make up the bulk of Facebook's client base.
"Buying video ad inventory is a strategy for larger advertisers," Parrish said.
-Max A. Cherney;
 2040ET