How do I publish content on my topic? Easy to do! You can: choose from suggestions on the right-side panel publish any web site on the fly in 1-click (bookmarklet) copy paste a link in the input box below rescoop other curators’ content Learn More How to grow my audience and develop my traffic? Publishing quality and relevant content you curate on a regular basis will develop your online visibility and traffic. Learn more and get all the tips to boost your topic’s views Why should I share my scoops? Sharing your scoops to your social media accounts is a must to distribute your curated content. Not only will it drive traffic and leads through your content, but it will help show your expertise with your followers. Learn how to connect your accounts Why should I brand my topic? Branding your topics will give more credibility to your content, position you as a professional expert and generate conversions and leads. Learn more How to integrate my topics' content to my website? Integrating your curated content to your website or blog will allow you to increase your website visitors’ engagement, boost SEO and acquire new visitors. By redirecting your social media traffic to your website, Scoop.it will also help you generate more qualified traffic and leads from your curation work. How to curate as a team? Save time by spreading curation tasks among your team. Learn how to share your curation rights How can I send a newsletter from my topic? Distributing your curated content through a newsletter is a great way to nurture and engage your email subscribers will developing your traffic and visibility. Creating engaging newsletters with your curated content is really easy. Learn how Can I make a topic hidden or private? You don’t want your Scoop.it page to be public: make it private. You can decide to make it visible only to you or to a restricted audience. We'll suggest content based on your keywords Examples: To get content containing either thought or leadership enter: To get content containing both thought and leadership enter: To get content containing the expression thought leadership enter: You can enter several keywords and you can refine them whenever you want. Our suggestion engine uses more signals but entering a few keywords here will rapidly give you great content to curate. Learn more How do I follow my topics' performance? Measuring and analyzing your curation will help you to understand what your audience is looking for and how to improve your performance.