Kansas Goes to Washington muselet 
Facebook has never paid much attention to little details like advertising content (or, for that matter, user privacy) and never will. Its new policy regarding adverts will be ignored as soon as the heat is off, guaranteed. 
–alopecia Victor the Crab 
And Doucherberg will be counting his ad revenues while the world burns from his little Frankenstein’s monster of an internet platform. Victor the Crab 
I’m not satisfied until Facebook’s head douchenozzle Mark Zuckerberg is tarred and feathered and run out on a rail. 
Silly, that only happens to the little people…not the filthy rich like Zukerberg. So far as I can tell consequences are for suckers (at least until Mueller is able to prove otherwise). Victor the Crab 
He may. But I can see him get fired by Drumph, and then the general populace quickly forgets about it after 24-48 hours. Badgerite 
So….the “wondrous and mysterious hand of free enterprise” unchecked by governmental regulation brings us a media platform easily bent toward purposes of hateful bigotry and authoritarian, fascist rule. Oh, well that sounds good. Jesus. How can they be so blase about this. Societies which do not interface with reality, that is real not “alternative” facts, are doomed. Dread_Pirate_Mathius 
Platforms like Facebook are free because the platform isn’t the product; users are the product. Social media platforms make money by selling advertisements and access to their data. 
Let’s all say it together: If you aren’t the client, you’re the service. 
I’ve always hated Facebook for this exact reason. I ran an add on FB a while back when I was selling a house. You would be stunned by how much it knows about its users. Things you’ve never provided, but that it has inferred about you and learned through tracking cookies everywhere on the internet. 
Including… drum roll… bobcesca.com! Yes, even our beloved blog features “Facebook Social Graph” tracking cookies, which means that FB knows that you frequent this blog. And it knows that you comment – it might even know what you comment. 1933john 
That’s why I don’t type “Trump”, “Crazy”, and“Mother-Fucker” during the National Anthem. muselet 
And people wonder why I hate Facebook with a fiery passion, and run an ad-blocker and a tracker-blocker. 
–alopecia