CC image courtesy of Spencer E Holtaway on Flickr (https://www.flickr.com/photos/spencereholtaway/3376955055) Facebook partners CcHub to launch Nigerian startup incubator Hubs , West Africa 
Facebook has partnered Lagos-based incubator Co-Creation Hub (CcHub) to NG_HUB, a physical space that will serve as a centre for learning and is aimed at helping to develop Nigeria’s tech and startup ecosystem via an incubation programme. 
Facebook is launching NG_HUB as part of a new nationwide initiative in Nigeria , which also incorporates a series of high profile partnerships and training programmes. 
The NG_HUB space is scheduled to open early next year, with the aim of connecting developers, startups and the wider community to collaborate, learn and exchange ideas. It will also host a startup incubator programme, as well as training, guest speakers and a dedicated event space. 
“In Nigeria, more than 22 million people use Facebook every month and 87 per cent of SMEs say that when they hire, digital skills are more important than where an applicant went to school. This demonstrates that the power of digital skills to aid economic growth and development has never been more important,” said Ebele Okobi, Facebook public policy director for Africa. 
“At Facebook, our mission is clear: to give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together. Our investments and commitments announced in Lagos today further reflect our intent to partner with Nigeria’s policy makers and its vibrant tech and entrepreneurial ecosystem to create economic opportunity and independence in Nigeria and across Africa.” 
Facebook will also be supporting a number of existing tech hubs across Nigeria to serve communities outside Lagos. The hubs will function as learning centres for local communities, providing multiple opportunities for training and access. 
Emeka Afigbo, Facebook’s head of platform partnerships for the Middle East and Africa, said Nigeria was producing a new generation of exciting startups that have incredible potential. 
“We understand the important role Facebook plays here in Nigeria with developers and startups and are invested in helping these communities build for the next billion,” he said. “One of our key passions at Facebook is nurturing and helping to develop the tech and startup community, and I’m excited to announce our partnership with the Nigerian tech hub ecosystem especially the NG_HUB space, here in Lagos.” 
Facebook is also launching a series of learning-based programmes facilitated by local training partners, designed to provide skills that lead to employment and to support the growth of small businesses. The goal is to train and support over 50,000 students, small businesses and creative entrepreneurs across the country through a series of scaled digital skills trainings, as well as long-term impact programmes. Share this Story Twitter