Facebook: 88% of ad revenue is from mobile 03/11/2017 
Ad revenue was up 68% YoY, from $6.8 billion to just over $10 billion, with mobile ad revenue comprising roughly 88% of ad revenue for the quarter, a 4% increase from this time past year. 
"The July global introduction of ads within Messenger, although now still in testing, should drive meaningful top-line growth in future years as well, as Facebook finally begins to monetize Messenger's 1.3 billion MAUs [monthly active users]", Wedbush said. 
"Because the interference on our platform went beyond ads, we're also increasing transparency around organic content from pages", said COO Sheryl Sandberg. 
Business Insider reported Facebook explaining that the changes were due to "a new methodology for duplicate accounts that included improvements to the data signals we rely on". We build these tools to help people connect and bring us closer together. "What they did is wrong, and we're not going to stand for it", Zuckerberg said. 
That came after Facebook told lawmakers this week that Russia-based operatives published about 80,000 posts on the social network over a two-year period in an effort to sway USA politics. 
The social network is hugely profitable with a net income of $4.7bn, or $1.59 a share, again ahead of the $1.28 analysts had forecasted. 
Facebook no longer report earnings on an adjusted or non-GAAP basis, while Wall Street's estimates are comparable only to adjusted results. 
Facebook continued racking up users. 
Every month, 2.072 billion people use Facebook , up 16 per cent from a year earlier. 
Total costs and expenses climbed to $5.21 billion, as Facebook increased its spending on research and development as well as on marketing. 
The disclosure could lead to increased scrutiny of the social network as it is under pressure to reveal how fake news and politically charged advertising may have affected last year's USA election as well as democracy around the world. 
Appearing in front of a Senate judiciary subcommittee, Facebook confirmed reports that ads bought in Russian Federation were delivered to an estimated 126m people during last year's election campaign. The number of daily active users has also increased in the third-quarter to be around 1.4 billion. 
Facebook shares now trade at around US$180. Related News: An emotional interview with Spanish newspaper Marca is set to be published on Friday with the front page showing a close-up of what remains of his ankle. 03 November 2017 Pistorius is now serving his sentence in the Atteridgeville Prison after he was moved from Kgosi Mampuru II. In 2015, they successfully appealed against her judgment that Pistorius was not guilty of murder. 03 November 2017 Entertainment Weekly reports that Warner Bros. has announced that " Crazy Rich Asians ", which is directed by filmmaker Jon M. EW and author Kevin Kwan also disclosed that Crazy Rich Asians will be premiering on August 17, 2018. 03 November 2017 The Rock Names Three Current WWE Superstars He Wants To Wrestle - During an appearance at a Comic-Con this past weekend, the Rock was asked about who he would want to come back and wrestle. He continues to whet the appetite with his off-screen appearances and the fans can not wait for him to get back and wrestle. 03 November 2017 Melco Resorts & Entertainment L (NASDAQ:MLCO) Experiences Heavy Trading Volume Capital Senior Living Corporation , that has shown a discernible change in trend levels over the path of recent market activity. A company that manages their assets well will have a high return, while if manages their assets poorly will have a low return. 03 November 2017 The United States remains committed to the complete, verifiable and permanent denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula, he said. 03 November 2017 Given the current rate of change, the Global Gender Gap Report estimates it will take 217 years to close the economic gender gap. According to the WEF Global Gender Gap Report 2017, the gender gap has, in fact, widened globally. 03 November 2017 The duo will play golf during Trump's visit, Reuters reported. "Countries like the United States and Japan can not be complacent". The President will travel to Japan, South Korea, China , Vietnam and the Philippines. 03 November 2017 Temple outlasts Navy as Frank Nutile throws 4 touchdown passes Darryl Bonner took a direct snap, pitched a reverse to fellow running back Malcolm Perry for a 5-yard pass to an open Abey. Abey's pick was the lone turnover, but the defense was overrun by one of the worst offensive teams in the country. 03 November 2017 Saipov's case is drawing renewed attention to the background checks that ride-hailing companies carry out on their drivers. Born in Uzbekistan Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov has lived in the US for seven years, said sources in law enforcement. 03 November 2017 Team USA gears up for 2018 Winter Olympics We want the Olympic Torch Relay to connect you to the Games, and ignite passion and excitement in every corner of Korea". The committee said North Korea which has won the right to compete in the figure pair skating event has not yet applied. 03 November 2017 Germany, Japan and Denmark are partner countries to World Food India, while Italy and the Netherlands are the focus countries. World Food India (WFI) is a global event to facilitate partnerships between Indian and worldwide businesses and investors. Most liked