Buy Now 
A screenshot of the Vent Missoula Facebook page on Nov. 2. 
Facebook has been the focus of two recent campaign finance complaints about the Missoula mayoral race filed with the Montana Commissioner of Political Practices. 
On Oct. 25, state legislator Bryce Bennett, D-Missoula, filed a complaint against the Vent Missoula Facebook page, the same day a complaint with similar accusations was filed by local attorney Quentin Rhoades against Mayor John Engen’s campaign. 
Engen is being challenged in the race for mayor by Lisa Triepke. 
Both complaints cite boosted Facebook posts as a form of campaign contribution; in Rhoades’ complaint, he said a boosted link from the Missoulian’s editorial endorsement of Engen counted as unreported campaign support. 
Bennett, though, took on the entirety of the Vent Missoula page, which is a public Facebook group whose posts largely comprise anti-Engen sentiments and complaints about City Council decisions. Its description advertises it as a “place for Missoulians to vent about anything Missoula.” 
In his complaint , Bennett argues Vent Missoula is an “incidental committee,” defined by Montana Code Annotated as a political committee that’s not organized for a specific campaign purpose, but becomes part of the campaign incidentally, by taking a contribution or making expenditures. 
The expenditure is a boosted Facebook post that lists articles about Engen’s weight-loss surgery, the Mountain Water purchase and pay raises, in response to “irrelevant details” published about Triepke’s past by local news outlets. 
Although the administrator of the Vent Missoula page commented on the post that “we do not endorse Triepke or any other politician,” an administrator comment on a different post told someone to “consider voting for Lisa Triepke! We need to start turning the barge to get Missoula on a better path.” 
Commissioner of Political Practices Jeff Mangan dismissed Rhoades’ complaint against the Engen campaign on Oct. 29, the same week it was filed, but is still looking into the complaint against Vent Missoula. 
On Oct. 25, COPP posted a request on Vent Missoula asking the administrator to contact its office. Two days later, the commissioner sent Tyler Theisen, a local attorney, a notice of the complaint and asked for information on the origins of Vent Missoula as well as any costs for any and all sponsored Facebook posts “supporting or opposing candidates for election.” 
Theisen emailed the Missoulian this week with the letter from Mangan and a letter to the editor, which the Missoulian published Friday. He said he was upset at the attack on his personal political views, made public since he is the administrator of Vent Missoula. 
“I have the freedom to publicly express my political beliefs, and no public official has the right to subject my wife and I to the stress, trauma, and embarrassment of being hauled into an investigation by an agency whose purpose is to regulate politicians, lobbyists, and political committees,” Theisen wrote. 
In Mangan’s dismissal of the complaint against Engen, he found the Missoulian’s sponsored Facebook post was “a legitimate press function,” and boosting it on Facebook was a standard business procedure for the company. 
An editorial endorsement was and is a type of communication the paper regularly engages in, Mangan wrote, and was an exemption from Montana Code Annotated’s definition of a campaign expenditure. 
According to Montana law, an expenditure is a “purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, promise, pledge, or gift of money or anything of value.” 
On Oct. 20, Rhoades filed another complaint against the Engen campaign, this time saying the campaign didn’t provide enough detail in its finance reports. It has not been resolved by the COPP. Angry