Facebook Provides New Ways for Travel-Based Businesses to Reach Interested Users Author share 
As we head towards the holiday season, Facebook has announced an update for their Dynamic Ads for Travel , which help travel brands hone their ads on the most receptive audience. 
Announced last year, Dynamic Ads for Travel enable businesses to target users who’ve displayed some level of interest in their region and offerings based on searches for related terms or similar. 
As explained by Facebook : 
“If someone was browsing hotels but didn't make a reservation (or if they were looking at flights but didn't book one), dynamic ads for travel allow you to target them with relevant ads based on their specific dates, destinations and other trip details.” 
Expanding on this, Facebook has now added some new options to Dynamic Travel Ads in order to help advertisers generate more attention with their targeted ads. 
First off, Facebook recently added broad audience targeting to the option, which enables travel advertisers to reach users who’ve expressed travel intent beyond just those who’ve visited their website. 
“By selecting broad audiences, businesses can promote relevant hotel offers to more people who are likely to book lodging, and grow their business at scale.” 
Broad audience targeting is now available to all hotel advertisers, and Facebook says they’re looking to make it available for promoting flights in the coming months. 
Facebook’s also looking to add ‘social context’ to Dynamic Travel Ads, with a new listing of a users’ Facebook connections who’ve traveled to the same region attached to the top of the ad. 
“Seeing that the people you know and trust already took a similar trip will provide social context and inspire people to plan their own adventures.” 
Indeed, previous Facebook research has shown that 53% of travelers find holiday inspiration on Facebook, while 40% get that inspiration from peers. 
Facebook’s also adding in new overlays for Dynamic Travel Ads which will enable advertisers to display a price on their main image. 
And lastly, Facebook will also enable advertisers to use their recently launched Collections ad format for Dynamic Travel Ads. 
Collections enable advertisers to utilize video and image content to create a more compelling, eye-catching ad experience. 
As noted, research has shown that many people turn to Facebook for travel inspiration, and as such, it makes sense for advertisers to tap into such demand and look to reach them with targeted offers. Dynamic Travel Ads are a smart option, especially leading into the holiday period, and coupled with Household Targeting , they can be a great, effective way to prompt further action from people who’ve shown some level of interest in specific travel options. 
Follow Andrew Hutchinson on Twitter