Podcast: Play in new window | Download 

When done right, Facebook advertising can be one of the best paid media options available to businesses of all sizes today. 
Facebook advertising is a marketing tactic every marketer is talking about it, but very few actually know how to drive real business results. Unfortunately there are far too many “experts” preaching and teaching how to get rich and famous overnight using Facebook marketing. The sad truth is these same experts are confusing new social media marketers more than helping. 
Although there is no guarantee that you will reach your target customer on any media today, including Facebook advertising, there are definitely strategies and tactics that can help you achieve a better ROI if you plan ahead. 
Our agency, Marketing Nutz works with brands big and small to help them drive a positive ROI with every dollar spent on digital, social media and marketing overall. We train and speak all over the world helping marketing, business and brand leaders try to not only understand organic and paid media, but optimize it for the highest business result possible. One of the top questions I always hear is…“does Facebook marketing actually work?” Then, the next question I hear is…”why doesn't Facebook advertising work for me and my business… I have tried it numerous times and finally just gave up.” 
Does this sound familiar? You have wasted far too much money on Facebook advertising with little to zero return You don't know where to start when it comes to paid media, earned media and everything in between You don't know the difference between a Facebook boosted post or any other type of Facebook advertisement You get confused when you logon to Facebook ad manager You know what Facebook business manager is but would be happy if you never had to open it again You run away from the Facebook Power Editor because it gives you bad dreams 
Facebook advertising requires both art and science. You can't just hop on Facebook, insert your credit card and out pops a bucket full of new customer leads, sales and ROI. I know some marketers may want you to believe such. However, the truth is they likely just want your email address or your money. 
This podcast is part of a new series titled “Welcome to the Pay to Play World, Are You Ready?” 
Take a listen to the 208th episode of the Social Zoom Factor podcast to learn 5 things you MUST know before you spend one dime on Facebook advertising! 
Be sure to subscribe to this entire brand new series, “ Welcome to the Pay to Play World, Are You Ready ?” on iTunes , Stitcher or SoundCloud ! In this 20 minute podcast you will learn: 5 foundational elements you must know before spending a dime on Facebook marketing How to get started right from day one as you start using or learn to optimize your Facebook marketing efforts and investment Why you must have the right mindset for success using Facebook advertising Different types of Facebook advertising options The importance of setting goals, objectives and key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure success Tips to determine your Facebook offer The importance of an integrated digital and social platform for converting leads and achieving your goals Why your problem in achieving your results using Facebook advertising may not be Facebook but other issues with your digital platform and conversion funnels Why you must focus on your conversion funnels as a top priority before wasting time and money on Facebook advertising The importance of knowing your audience to target your audience and increase ROI of Facebook advertising Need more help? Social Profit Factor Training Academy and Marketing Nutz Can Help! 
Check out our new comprehensive online social media and branding training academy, the Social Profit Factor , that will help with you master Facebook marketing and also develop your audience based social media, branding and digital marketing strategy and plan. Sign up now to become a founding member and receive some incredible deals plus bonus offers. 
Need help training your sales team or marketing team on the power of audience marketing, social media or social selling? Give us a shout and let's get a custom workshop schedule for your team. Increase sales by generating more leads using social media to nurture relationships. 
Be sure to subscribe to this entire brand new series, “ Welcome to the Pay to Play World, Are You Ready ?” on iTunes , Stitcher or SoundCloud ! Supporting Resources: