Facebook wants nude photos from Australian users - for a good reason Brett Molina twitter TWEET More 
Facebook's latest attempt to wipe revenge porn off its platform: asking users to send their own nude photos. 
The Australian government's Office of the eSafety Commissioner announced it is joining a pilot program with Facebook to prevent intimate images of users from appearing against their will on the social network's platform. 'Game on': Western Sydney light rail route revealed Play Video The crime that one in ten Aussies ... The crime that one in ten Aussies experience 
Dr. Nicola Henry explains the laws surrounding 'revenge porn,' a crime that studies indicate is shockingly prevalent in Australia. Up Next 'Game on': Western Sydney light rail route revealed Play Video 'Game on': Western Sydney light rail ... 'Game on': Western Sydney light rail route revealed 
In August, Transport Minister Andrew Constance announced details of the environmental impact statement (EIS) for Western Sydney's light rail project. Up Next Squalid conditions on Manus Island Play Video Squalid conditions on Manus Island Squalid conditions on Manus Island 
Footage obtained from inside the detention centre shows mouldy showers and dirty toilets with detainees describing their desperate situation. Up Next Two day warning for detainees Play Video Two day warning for detainees Two day warning for detainees 
PNG authorities have told the 600 men holed up in the Manus Island detention centre, it'll be closed in two days and force could be used to move them out. Up Next No agreement on citizenship No agreement on citizenship 
Despite a two hour meeting to try resolve the citizenship crisis, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Labor leader Bill Shorten haven't come up with a resolution. Up Next Extra work for our pollies Play Video Extra work for our pollies Extra work for our pollies 
The PM is considering recalling parliament for an extra day the week before Christmas to deal with any issues arising from his citizenship disclosure plan. Up Next Sam Dastyari racially attacked Sam Dastyari racially attacked 
Labor Senator Sam Dastyari has been racially abused in a pub by right-wing outfit Patriot Blue in Melbourne. Up Next Malcolm v Karl 
Watch Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Today Show host Karl Stefanovic have a fiery on air spat. More videos The crime that one in ten Aussies experience 
Dr. Nicola Henry explains the laws surrounding 'revenge porn,' a crime that studies indicate is shockingly prevalent in Australia. 
The unusual catch: users worried an inappropriate image might appear on Facebook's platforms are asked to send an intimate image via Messenger, a preventive measure designed to flag the images before they're shared. 
Facebook did not respond to requests for comment. SHARE Users worried an inappropriate image might appear on Facebook's platforms are asked to send it in. Photo: Ingrid Kurtz 
According to the eSafety Office, if a Facebook user in Australia is concerned about an intimate image spreading online, they fill out a form, then send the image to themselves using Messenger. 
Once Facebook is notified, they use image-matching technology to prevent anyone from sharing it on their platforms. Advertisement 
"This partnership gives Australians a unique opportunity to proactively inoculate themselves from future image-based abuse by coming to our portal and reporting tool," said Julie Inman Grant, Australia's eSafety Commissioner, in a statement. You will now receive updates from Technology Newsletter Technology Newsletter 
Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox. By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy . 
The limited pilot program is available in three other countries: the US, UK, and Canada. 
In April, Facebook detailed plans to fight revenge porn, including an artificial intelligence tool capable of matching photos to prevent them from appearing on platforms like Messenger or Instagram. 
"These tools, developed in partnership with global safety experts, are one example of how we're using new technology to keep people safe and prevent harm," said Antigone Davis, Facebook's head of global safety, in a statement. 
According to Australia's eSafety office, one in five Australians has faced image-based abuse, where an intimate photo has been posted to social media without their consent. 
"This pilot has the potential to disable the control and power perpetrators hold over victims, particularly in cases of ex-partner retribution and sextortion, and the subsequent harm that could come to them," said Inman Grant. 
Two years ago, Twitter and Reddit cracked down on revenge porn, banning the practice on both platforms. 
USA Today