Facebook Is Asking Users to Upload Their Nudes to Prevent Revenge Porn By Joshua Espinoza Find him on Twitter .
 In an effort to combat revenge porn , Facebook is asking Australian users to upload their own nudes. We know: It sounds counterproductive, but the strategy actually makes sense.
According to Australian Broadcasting Corp. , Facebook has partnered with the country&apos;s e-Safety Commissioner to develop a pilot program that will block and remove vindictive image-sharing on Facebook, Instagram, or Messenger. Concerned users are asked to send their nudes to themselves via Messenger. Once the image is sent, Facebook can digitally "hash" the image to create a digital footprint.
"They&apos;re not storing the image, they&apos;re storing the link and using artificial intelligence and other photo-matching technologies," e-Safety Commissioner Julie Inman Grant explained . "So if somebody tried to upload that same image, which would have the same digital footprint or hash value, it will be prevented from being uploaded."
According to Motherboard , blurred out versions of the images will actually be temporarily stored by Facebook; however, it’s unclear for how long.
"The spokesperson said that while they are being stored, the naked photos will only be accessible to a small group of people," Motherboard reporter Louise Matsakis explained. "After Facebook discards the images, it will only retain the hashes. The spokesperson said that Facebook is not able to reconstruct images based on the hashes they keep."
According to a 2016 report by the Data & Society Research Institute , about 4 percent of Americans—about 10.4 million individuals—"have been threatened with or experienced the posting of explicit images without their consent."
Show Video Transcript
Transcript
Facebook is on a mission to take action against ‘revenge porn’, but the social media platform is going about it in a very weird way. The platform is asking Australian users to send themselves their own nudes via messenger because it actually has an innovative way to tackle the threat of revenge porn.
According to Australian Broadcasting Corp., Facebook is teaming up with the country’s e-Safety Commissioner to develop a pilot program that will automatically detect users’ malicious intent on sharing certain images on Facebook, Instagram, or Messenger. The program will both block and remove any vengeful content that comes across its server.
People who are worried that one of their exes is out to get them by sharing their nudes online, can send their nudes to themselves and once the photos are sent through, Facebook can digitally “hash” the image, which creates a digital footprint. Now a lot of people would be concerned that the minds behind this program may be storing their nudes in a database and fear that something could go wrong and they would be leaked, but apparently this can&apos;t happen.
"They&apos;re not storing the image, they&apos;re storing the link and using artificial intelligence and other photo-matching technologies. So if somebody tried to upload that same image, which would have the same digital footprint or hash value, it will be prevented from being uploaded."
Apparently, Facebook will temporarily store blurred out versions of the images, but it’s unclear how long those photos will be retained, according to Motherboard .
"The spokesperson said that while they are being stored, the naked photos will only be accessible to a small group of people. After Facebook discards the images, it will only retain the hashes. The spokesperson said that Facebook is not able to reconstruct images based on the hashes they keep."
The Data & Society Research Institute conducted a 2016 report that showed about 10.4 million people—which is about 4 percent of Americans— “have been threatened with or experienced the posting of explicit images without their consent.”
If this pilot program is implemented worldwide, it’s going to be very interesting to see if the new technology can actually protect people and eradicate revenge porn entirely. That’s all the news for now, but for more, be sure to subscribe to Complex on Youtube today. For Complex News, I’m Beija Velez.
 Videos , Complex News Videos , Facebook , Porn , Social Media , Complex Video , revenge porn