Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Facebook, Snapchat execs agree to advise anti-hate speech group The Anti-Defamation League announced a roster of technology experts would join the board of its new Center for Technology and Society. Post to Facebook A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Facebook, Snapchat execs agree to advise anti-hate speech group Marco della Cava , USA TODAY Published 1:00 p.m. ET Nov. 13, 2017 | Updated 7:03 a.m. ET Nov. 14, 2017 Share CLOSE A new FBI report shows hate crimes rose by about 5 percent between 2015 and 2016. Video provided by Newsy Newslook ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt (Photo: ADL, for USA TODAY) CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE SAN FRANCISCO — Executives from Facebook, Snapchat and other tech-oriented organizations will help the Anti-Defamation League develop guidelines aimed at better rooting out online hate speech. The ADL's new Center for Technology and Society, which officially launched Monday at the group's Never is Now! summit and is fueled by grants from eBay founder Pierre Omidyar, will lean on its new board members to develop strategies for social network platforms trying to tackle incendiary rhetoric in an open forum. "Now more than ever, as anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, racism and other discrimination has exploded online, it's critical that we are bringing the best resources we can amass to this fight," CTS director Brittan Heller said in a statement. More: Reddit bans Nazis, discussions that incite violence The board forms as rampant abuse on online platforms have left Facebook, Twitter and others scrambling to find ways to better patrol their respective sites. For example, Reddit, which since its founding in 2005 has prided itself on remaining an open forum for discussion, recently moved to ban any subreddit, or micro-community, threads glorifying Nazism. And just last week, Twitter halted its user verification program after being blasted for verifying Jason Kessler, who organized the "Unite the Right" protest in Charlottesville that resulted in the death of a protester. The ADL's new center has been active since it was announced earlier this year at the South By Southwest tech conference in Austin. The center was started with a $250,000 seed grant from the philanthropic investment firm Omidyar Network, which has pledged another $1.5 million to support the CTS. The mission of the center is to "conduct cutting-edge research, issue reports, convene events, generate public awareness, and educate policymakers about legislation needed to stop cyber hate." CTS board members include Shawn Henry, former FBI executive assistant director; Reddit founder and CEO Steve Huffman; James Joaquin, co-founder and managing director of Obvious Ventures; Aileen Lee, Cowboy Ventures; Matt Rogers, Nest founder and chief product officer; Facebook VP of Product Guy Rosen; and Whitney Wolfe, CEO of the dating app Bumble. "Through the center, ADL is taking the fight against hate to the front lines of where it is today," ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt said in a statement. "Fifty years ago, extremists were hiding behind hoods and burning crosses. Today, they're hiding behind avatars and burning up Twitter." CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE