Fake Facebook account in ex-CMP commissioner’s name, youth held Chittagong Bureau, bdnews24.com Previous Next Detectives have arrested a man for his alleged involvement in ripping off people using a fake Facebook account that has been created in the name of former commissioner of Chittagong Metropolitan Police. 
Police picked up Md Rony from Dagonbhuiyan neighbourhood in Feni on Saturday night. The 20-year-old sells mobile handsets at a shop there. 
Rony’s accomplices, ‘Ataur’ and ‘Nazrul’ live in Qatar, police say. 
Ataur used to run a Facebook profile with the name of Abdul Jalil Mondal, who served as the commissioner of Chittagong Metropolitan Police or CMP from Sept 21, 2014 to Apr 10, 2016. 
He was later promoted as the additional director general of the Rapid Action Battalion or RAB. Currently he is on post retirement leave. 
Ataur used to put up posts like “Motorcycle confiscated by police on sale”, “Fund needed for building mosque in the name of my mother.” He also duped people many times with fake job offers, Abu Bakar Siddiqui, additional deputy commissioner of the Detective Branch, has told bdnews24.com. 
“He used to provide bKash numbers and asked people to collect the vehicles from Rajarbagh Police Lines. 
“Many had fallen in the trap and lost money,” ADC Siddiqui added. 
Police started investigation in September following verbal complaints from those who have been deceived. 
The gang has earned more than Tk 700,000 in the last few months, according to police. 
ADC Siddiqui said: “Ataur hails from Charpatharaghata neighbourhood of the port city. He used bKash numbers provided by Rony. 
“Rony then collected the money and distributed them among people following instructions of another Qatar expatriate. Nazrul used to convert the money to Qatar currency and send it to Ataur.” 
Assistant Commissioner of DB, Asif Mohiuddin, told bdnews24.com: “Ataur can talk like Jalil Mondal. He used to send friend requests to other police officers and talk to them.” 
“People including policemen used to get convinced by seeing different photos of Abdul Jalil Mondal and also names of other police officers in his friend’s list.” 
Recently, Ataur published a circular for appointing office assistant at the CMP headquarters, to which many people responded and talked to Ataur, AC Asif added. Advertisement