Fake news: Is it time to tame Facebook, Twitter and Google? By Issac James Manayath | Express News Service | Published: 03rd November 2017 01:15 AM | Last Updated: 03rd November 2017 01:15 AM | A+ A A- | 0 Share Via Email Colin Stretch (L), General Counsel of Facebook, Sean Edgett (C), Acting General Counsel of Twitter, and Richard Salgado (R), Director of Law Enforcement and Information Security of Google, are sworn in prior to testifying before a US Senate committee | AFP 
CHENNAI: Facebook, Twitter and Google are under scrutiny like never before from US lawmakers and public after it came to light that these internet platforms helped Russian shadow operatives influence the 2016 presidential US presidential election. On Tuesday, the three tech giants testified before US Congressional committees during which they acknowledged their failure to identify and put a stop to Russian propaganda against Hillary Clinton, a failure which many believe swung the election in favour of her opponent, Donald Trump. 
In the months leading to last year’s election, more than 126 million Americans were exposed to posts and ads placed by an agency named Internet Research Agency that was linked to the Russian government. Its aim was to manipulate public opinion and widen the fissures in American society. 
The agency posted more than 3000 ads that sought to promote hatred and exacerbate racial tensions. For instance, according to Washington Post, one of the ads showed a black woman loading a gun (symbolic of a power shift in American society). Another exhorted white men to shoot Black Lives Matter activists who burned the US flag. 
The 470 or so accounts linked to the agency put out over 80,000 posts containing false information and links to fake news websites that were liked and shared by thousands of Facebook users. Many of them targeted Hillary Clinton, while others sought to widen the racial divide in America. Some even urged people residing in states like Texas and California to join a campaign to secede from the union. 
During the congressional hearing, Facebook agreed to put in place adequate safeguards against propaganda and fake news, but stopped short of revealing what this would mean in practice. Political ads are always tricky to referee. Is it okay for Facebook to remove an ad that says 'Hillary Clinton supports ISIS'? In a country like America, a move to censor an individual’s political views would be met with strong resentment. The problem is that in the post-truth era, no one other than scholars has the time to fact-check every article he or she reads. 
All the same, for the first time since the advent of social media, the debate is tipping towards greater regulation of content posted on internet platforms. The Honest Ads Act passed by the US Congress last month with bipartisan support is a step in such a direction. The Act seeks to regulate advertisements on social media by requiring tech platforms to disclose more information about ad buyers such as their political/religious affiliation, country of origin, intended targets, the cost and so forth, alongside the ad itself. Although the Bill covers only ads, giving more information about the advertisers would help social media users examine the context of what they are being told. 
Obviously, tech giants are opposed to any kind of regulation for it would have implications for their revenue model which is based on algorithms that can direct messages extremely specifically at those who are more likely to like it. Facebook's profits of 13 billion dollars come from algorithms that analyse vast amounts of user and usage data and posts news and advertising that is most relevant to user profiles. 
What about fake accounts? Even if Facebook implements safeguards against malicious ads, there are various other ways in which someone determined to influence elections or sway the minds of people could use its platforms to achieve their objectives. For instance, someone could start a blog, write fake news and get them promoted on Facebook. That’s what dozens of teenagers in Macedonia did in the months leading up to the 2016 US elections. They opened websites and began posting sensational contents on the US election. They carried pro-Trump fake news items that were injected into the American mainstream through Facebook, Twitter and Google. 
The blog posts were eagerly shared by thousands of pro-Trump FB groups. Thus, someone wanting to spread fake news could simply join a targeted social media group and post fake news written in the syntax of professional journalism. 
Recent revelations have shown that 470 or so fake Russian accounts on Facebook put out as many as 80,000 posts that reached 126 million users in the weeks before the election. 
Who knows how much Facebook knows The fake news phenomenon is a direct outcome of data acquisition by the Internet giants. They collect vast quantities of data about users and sell them to advertisers after taking generic, poorly informed consent from the users. Apart from the information you provide, such as your date of birth, telephone number and so forth, Facebook, Twitter and Google keep tabs on what you search for on the Internet and what products you buy online. 
According to an article in USA Today, “It (Facebook) tracks which pages you like and the ads you click on, the phone you use and your Internet connection as well as the sites you browse on the Web. It buys information from data brokers that gather detailed information from public records and previous purchases and purchasing behaviour, among other things, ranging from the value of your home to whether you carry a balance on your credit card. When you combine that information with what Facebook already knows about you, it's arguably the complete consumer snapshot on earth.” 
In others words, the tech giants know your tastes and preferences better than your mother, even the darkest of your desires. Vast quantities of such user data are collected each day without anything but the flimsiest oversight. No one really knows what data Facebook collects, where they are stored and to whom they are transferred, and more importantly, for what price. 
The word regulation is scary. Who is a honest regulator? Who can be entrusted with protecting the interests of ordinary citizens? The government? At the end of the day, the government is also run by people whose minds could be swayed. 
Regulation has become a bad word in the neoliberal age. In the words of Friedrich Hayek, one of the earliest proponents of free-market capitalism, regulation is an assault on the “freedom and dignity of individuals.” 
However, recent cases of internet-enabled interference in political events like Brexit and elections in the US, Britain, Germany and France have thrown up a question never before debated in the Internet Age: Have we allowed social media to run riot under the guise of freedom of information? Related Article