Fiery exchanges as politicians scold Facebook, Google and Twitter
Facebook Inc (FB.O) reported better-than-expected quarterly profit and revenue on Wednesday as it pushed further into video advertising, showing no sign of financial damage from the controversy over how Russian Federation may have used the social network to meddle in the 2016 US elections. "[They said] 'there's nothing to see here.' It bothers me, if you're committed to working with us on this", Warner said, basing his impressions on initial briefings the firms gave Senate Intelligence at the beginning of the summer.
A Russian-run page entitled " Donald Trump America" called for "disqualification and removal of Hillary Clinton from the presidential ballot" and ran an ad linking to the White House's crowdsourced petition site, on which there was a petition that claimed the "dynastic succession of the Clinton family in American politics breaches the core democratic principles laid out by our Founding Fathers". Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) said. James Risch (R-Idaho) said.
On the morning after Election Day 2016, the Russian page "Black Matters", which was created to look like a black activist group, began promoting a "Trump is NOT my president" event , to take place at New York City's Union Square.
"A lot of folks, including many in the media, have tried to reduce this entire conversation down to one premise: foreign actors conducted a surgically executed covert operation to help elect a United States president", Burr said.
She was directly addressing the three company lawyers - Facebook's general counsel Colin Stretch, Google's general counsel Kent Walker and Twitter's acting general counsel Sean Edgett - but more broadly her remarks and those of other senators underscored the rising frustration with the technology industry generally.
Burr showed photos of events in Texas that were organized by one of the Russian pages called "Heart of Texas".
IOS 11 gets an emoji update ahead of iPhone X launch
Just ahead of the delivery of iPhone X shipments to its first lucky purchasers, Apple has released iOS 11.1. There are new animals including a giraffe, zebra, hedgehog, a dinosaur and a cricket.
He also asked Stretch why Facebook delayed taking down an account that purported to be linked to the Tennessee Republican party.
The company said profit in its third quarter leaped 79 percent, to $1.59 per share, more than the $1.28 a share analysts had expected. Burr, a North Carolina Republican, said during Wednesday's hearing.
Stretch also disclosed that reach of Russian-backed political content on its platforms was greater than previously stated.
King, who expressed disappointment that the three tech companies sent attorneys rather than their CEOs to testify before the Senate Intelligence committee , said the goal of Russia's influence campaign online was to sow discord and that it won't stop unless something is done.
Neither Facebook, Google, nor Twitter executives were able to tell congressional investigators on Tuesday how much money they made from ads that appeared alongside Russian propaganda.