Share Nov 3, 2017 6:30 AM EDT 
Good morning! This is Fly Charts, the daily charts-only newsletter from Gadfly; sign up here . From Arbageddon to a healthy Cheesecake Factory, here are four charts that tell you what you need to know in business today. Big Time Facebook has grown into an advertising behemoth, and is now starting to reckon with the consequences of dominance. Source: Bloomberg Let Them Eat Cake It's been a rough two quarters for sales, but bet against Cheesecake Factory at your own risk. Source: Bloomberg, Company filings *DineEquity includes both Applebee's and IHOP chains Big Borrowers The possible winners and losers of the GOP tax proposal are still shaking out. But it doesn't look good for debt-dependent private equity firms. Source: LCD, a unit of S&P Global Market Intelligence *2017 data through August A variety of shaky wireless mergers may result in "arbageddon" for merger arbitrageurs. Source: Bloomberg Note: Assumes an exchange ratio of 1.437 AT&T shares, but if AT&T has an average price exceeding $41.349 at closing, the exchange ratio will be 1.3 shares. 
And don't miss Stephen Gandel on the very wealthy new Fed Chair : "The fact that arguably one of the most important people in the economy is also among the top 0.1 percent -- nearly 800 times richer, even after adjusting for inflation, than Paul Volcker was when he headed the Fed -- could shade Fed policy. Perspective matters. For example, when the Fed under Ben Bernanke lowered interest rates to near zero and kept them there, critics contended he was hurting savers. But the only savers hurt were really wealthy ones. Bernanke, thankfully, shrugged off the criticism. Would someone worth 40 times as much with more of a Wall Street sensibility do the same?" This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners. To contact the author of this story: Max Nisen in New York at To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Gongloff at Can't Complain Can't Complain Shares of Berkshire, which is avoiding paying a dividend even as its cash accumulates to unproductive levels, are still beating the S&P 500 on a total return basis Source: Bloomberg