Former Facebook Boss Parker vents on the psychological effects of his creation
"God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains", Parker said in an Axios interview published Thursday, Nov. 9. He says Facebook was created to exploit a major human "vulnerability", and he's gotten so concerned about the platform's strength that he chose to speak out about it.
Parker joined Facebook when it was five months old in 2004 as president, and advised the young Zuckerberg on how to structure and run his fledgling company. Users post something, they get comments and likes, and they post more.
Parker claimed that with the development of Facebook and other platforms, "the thought process was all about how to we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible".
Parker's comments, though revelatory, come off as somewhat ironic, given that he has reaped billions off Facebook from being an early investor. It's not the first time a tech entrepreneur has disavowed something they've created or been involved with - Programmer Ethan Zuckerman famously penned an apology letter for unleashing pop-up ads into the world several years ago. He believes that it "probably interferes with productivity in weird ways" and had some even more unsafe assertions about it.
At an Axios event in Philadelphia, Parker noted he has become a "conscientious objector" on social media, though he maintains accounts on Facebook and Twitter. A 2017 study conducted by the Royal Society for Public Health, a United Kingdom -based health charity, found that people who use platforms such as Facebook and Instagram were more likely to have anxiety, depression and sleep issues.
Knoxville hosts annual Veterans Day Parade
This year's parade route begins at the Hardin County Courthouse and ends in front of Savannah City Hall at Hanna Boulevard. The event marks the first time in years the city of Houston will not host a Veterans Day parade , according to ABC 13 .
"We'll get you eventually", Parker recalled. His role in the creation of Facebook was portrayed by Justin Timberlake in the 2010 movie The Social Network .
Parker is now a billionaire and co-founded Napster , a free internet service for sharing music files, in 1999.
"And I would say, "OK. You know, you will be".
He says he's not too sure if he really comprehended the impact of social media at the time of its nascency and advent, arguing that there were so many potentially unforeseeable and unintended consequences of a network with users growing by the billions.
His official tenure with Facebook lasted only a year before a suspected-cocaine scandal forced him out as president in 2005, although he remained integral to its operations.