Print Article A A 
If Mozart was around, we’d most likely be gushing over his latest film score rather than a new sonata. Composers rarely get their due anymore — the "makers of music" are often called DJs, producers or singer-songwriters. But brilliantly composed orchestral music has never gone completely out of style. 
Longtime Green River Ordinance producer and Fort Worth native Jordan Critz is familiar with that particular grind. For the past three years he’s made a killing as a commercial composer, penning tunes and crafting melodies for Disney, Apple and Facebook, just to name a few. But now he’s putting out music from the heart, directed toward the listener as opposed to the client. 
“In licensing in general there’s a tendency to start writing for licensing, especially if the songs start getting traction, which there is nothing wrong with per se,” Critz says. “But as an artist and as a composer, the second you start writing just for licensing you start to slowly lose your art and what you have to say.” 
Critz's first EP as a solo composer, Edge of the Light, is slated for release on Dec. 1 via Tone Tree Music. It's been a long time coming. Critz, who is classically trained, has composed and loved music since he was a child. He says he first realized his connection to his craft while listening to the radio with his brother. 
“I kind of realized I heard it in layers, and some people hear it as a whole,” he said. “I was like, 'I think I can do this. I think I can start layering different sounds.' Man, from there I’ve never stopped, honestly.” 
Critz, who is now based in Nashville, says that it's the success he's had working for corporate clients and producing albums for other bands that has finally enabled him to release his own five-track album, which he entirely composed. After hiring 30 musicians on strings, Critz recorded his debut EP live on piano — in two takes and four hours — at the iconic Ocean Way Studio. "Pursuing what’s inspiring is the only way to go if you want to be happy and not burn out." — Composer Jordan Critz