By Danny McDonald Globe Staff November 02, 2017
This Facebook ad was included as an exhibit in a congressional hearing on Wednesday.
A Russia-backed Facebook ad that featured during last year’s presidential election cited a bloody, police-involved shooting in East Boston in an attempt to sway people to vote for President Trump, according to federal documents made public Wednesday.
According to documents from the House Permanent Select Committee, the ad, which ran in October 2016, cites a firefight that left Boston police officers Richard Cintolo and Matthew Morris seriously wounded. Authorities identified the shooter as 33-year-old constable Kirk Figueroa, who was killed during the incident.
The Facebook ad , which was posted under an account named “Being Patriotic,” said that incident is an example of a “war with police,” then refers to Hillary Clinton, the then-Democratic candidate for president, as “the main hardliner against cops.” Defending police against liberal and racist accusations, the post claims “is a solemn duty of every American Patriot.”
Advertisement The race-baiting dog whistle then becomes a fog horn, with the ad stating that Democrats are unable to “secure the police from attacks of extremist movements like Black Lives Matter.”
Get Fast Forward in your inbox: Forget yesterday's news. Get what you need today in this early-morning email. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here Black Lives Matter is a social movement that advocates for equality and protests against systemic racism in the US.
The ad was one of a collection of posts that Congress released Wednesday that showed Russia’s attempt to sow civil discord in the US. Government intelligence services say the Russian use of social media was part of a broad effort to sway the 2016 presidential election in favor of Trump.
“Russia exploited real vulnerabilities that exist across online platforms and we must identify, expose, and defend ourselves against similar covert influence operations in the future,” said Congressman Adam Schiff , a California Democrat, on Wednesday.
Special counsel Robert Mueller has been appointed to investigate Russian meddling in last year’s election. Earlier this week, he revealed charges against three former Trump campaign officials.
Advertisement Other Facebook posts made public yesterday included one that called for a burqa ban in the US, a Facebook event that said Hillary Clinton was the co-author of “Obama’s anti-police and anti-Constitutional propaganda,” and one that calls Clinton “a Satan” and includes an image of the devil arm-wrestling Jesus Christ.
The ad that cited the East Boston shooting trumpeted, “The Nation must unite against reverse racism, against those who want to destroy America! Among all the candidates Donald Trump is the one and only who can defend the police from terrorists.”
In that ad’s photo, uniformed personnel carry a flag-draped coffin. The caption, in gold, all-caps text, proclaims “ANOTHER GRUESOME ATTACK ON POLICE BY A BLM MOVEMENT ACTIVIST. OUR HEARTS ARE WITH THOSE 11 HEROES.”
Between June 2015 and August 2017, Russian Internet Research Agency purchased 3,393 Facebook advertisements, built about 120 Facebook pages, and was associated with 470 Facebook accounts, according to documents from the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. About 11.4 million Americans saw those advertisements and 126 million Americans likely saw content from a Russian Internet Agency Facebook page.
In the instance of the ad that cited the East Boston shooting , someone paid 500 rubles, Russian currency that is the equivalent of about $8.50, for the ad to be posted, according to federal documents. The ad, according to federal documents, was up for a day -- from Oct. 14 to Oct. 15. The two Boston police officers were shot on Oct. 12. According to federal documents, the ad made 3,362 “impressions” on Facebook and 761 people clicked on it during that time. It was targeted to “people who like being patriotic,” according to federal documents.
Advertisement Boston police declined to comment on the matter Wednesday. Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh’s office, Black Lives Matter Boston, and Black Lives Matter Cambridge did not return messages Wednesday.
Material from the Associated Press and The Washington Post was used in this report. Danny McDonald can be reached at daniel.mcdonald@globe.com . Follow him on Twitter @Danny__McDonald .