Search for: Gallery: US Senate Releases Instances of Russian Propaganda on Facebook and Twitter Senators examine a visual aide during the Senate Select Intelligence Committee's hearing on 'the social media influence in the 2016 U.S. elections and what steps they are taking to mitigate foreign interference in the 2018 election cycle and beyond' on Capitol Hill in Washington DC, USA, 01 November 2017. (Photo: SHAWN THEW/EPA-EFE/REX/Shutterstock) Posted By: Middle East News Desk November 2, 2017 
The US Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released instances of social media posts and ads believed to be part of Russian propaganda aiming to divide the American society and influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election. 
Committee’s report was based on information by Facebook, Twitter and Google and their initial investigations into the Russian use of their platforms during the election. 
It also relied on unclassified January 2017 report by Intelligence Community Assessment (ICA), concluding that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016. 
“Moscow’s influence campaign followed a Russian messaging strategy that blends covert intelligence operations—such as cyber activity—with overt efforts by Russian Government agencies, state-funded media, third-party intermediaries, and paid social media users or ‘trolls’,” the document said. 
The initial findings by Facebook showed that between June 2015 and August 2017 Russian Internet Research Agency (IRA) purchased 3,393 advertisements, which were seen by 11.4 million Americans. 
There were 470 Facebook accounts associated with IRA, and 120 pages built by IRA, posting more than 80.000 pieces of content – likely seen by 126 million people. 
Twitter investigated activities between September 1 and November 15 last year, finding more than 36.000 Russian-linked bot accounts tweeting about elections. These accounts produced more than 1.4 million tweets, getting 288 million views. 
To put these numbers into action, the US senators described some of the strategies employed on Facebook, such as the Heart of Texas Facebook account, which had more than 250,000 followers. 
It was used to place an advertisement for an anti-Muslim rally, while another group, allegedly operated by Russian agents, posted pro-Islamic content and created an even scheduled at the same time and place as the anti-Muslim event, resulting in disruption in Houston, Texas. 
Senator Mark Warner highlighted another strategy – a Christian-themed Facebook page which started posting increasingly political and heated content as the number of followers grew. 
Facebook, Twitter and Google were criticized for underestimating the scale of the problem. “You just don’t get it. What we’re talking about is a cataclysmic change. What we’re talking about is the beginning of cyber-warfare,” said California Senator Dianne Feinstein during a Wednesday hearing. 
Although the companies’ lawyers expressed deep concern regarding the report and their own findings, they stopped short of pledging their support for the Honest Ads Act, which seeks to regulate online advertising and make it more transparent.