Gary the goat, an internet sensation with a Facebook following of more than 1.7 million people, has died on tour in Australia. 
News of Gary's passing hit hard when it was announced on social media early Friday morning. External Link: Gary the Goat on FB: RIP Gary 
In the 12 hours that followed, more than 44,000 comments have been left, and his farewell post has been shared more than 32,000 times. 
Gary and his owner, comedian Jim Dezarnaulds, also known as Jimbo Baboozi, were on tour in regional Queensland at the time of Gary's passing. 
The duo were famous for their comedy routines in pubs across Australia. 
According to their website, their last show together was on Tuesday in Emerald, and their next was scheduled for Moranbah on Saturday. 
"Gary died tonight aged six [on November 16 about 10:30pm] from euthanasia — after vets diagnosed a bleed from an acute heart tumour," Dezarnaulds wrote on Gary's Facebook page. 
"The vets drained it once but when it came back 24 hours later we decided that Gary needed to go out peacefully and pain-free instead of being conscious while he couldn't breathe. 
"We thought it was just bloat at first — but it's very hard to diagnose a goat who doesn't give a f***. 
"We'll all miss you Gary. You gave so much happiness to so many people. Rest In Peace, mate." Did you follow Gary's adventures on social media? Leave a comment for Australia's most famous goat below. 
Speaking with ABC Capricornia, Dezarnaulds confirmed the animal, which has been a part of his shows since 2011, had been frozen in preparation for a taxidermist. 
"I was doing this show for seven years and a guy offered me a goat for a case of beer one night in Gingin," Jimbo said. 
"Gary was just my best mate." Jimbo Baboozi and Gary meet The Real Thing. 
The Sydney-born comedian has received an outpouring of support from fans across the country and says he was as shocked as anyone by the sudden death of his animal sidekick. 
"I was hoping maybe he'd live to 15 like some goats are lucky enough too, but I think in his six years he's packed in way more than 15 years of living." 
Dezarnaulds also paid tribute to Gary's social media fans. 
"Just thank you for all the toots of the horn, and everyone was so respectful of Gary. Thanks for sharing such a wild journey with us." Photo: Gary passed away on Thursday night, Dezarnaulds said. (ABC RN: Timothy Nicastri) 
Daniel Angus, who specialises in social media analysis at the University of Queensland, said Gary's appeal to a Facebook audience reflected on Australian culture. 
"It speaks to that kind of desire for — I think for Australians particularly — that larrikinism. There's a sense of not taking things too seriously," Dr Angus said. 
"You kind of feel a sense of empathy towards the goat. It speaks to those raw human values and emotions. 
"And people have a sense of connection with that character and a sense that they want to actually live vicariously there in that moment." 
In 2013 Gary's notoriety grew when Dezarnaulds was fined $440 after police said he allowed Gary to eat plants and flowers outside Sydney's Museum of Contemporary Art. 
He was charged with destroying vegetation without authority. 
The case was later dismissed.