Grieving mum says Facebook won't let her access suicide victim son's messages to bring cruel cyberbullies to justice Felix Alexander killed himself at the age of 17 after relentless taunts on social media, but his mum Lucy is still battling to get access to his Facebook profile 19 months from his death
 Share Comments By Amy Sharpe 21:32, 25 NOV 2017 Updated 23:11, 25 NOV 2017 News
Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now daily Smiling as he poses with his mum Lucy, in that slightly embarrassed way of all teen boys, Felix Alexander looks as if hasn’t got a care in the world.
But behind that shy grin was a boy desperately in need of help –because his life had secretly become a torment at the hands of cyberbullies .
Not long after it was taken, Felix committed suicide at the age of 17.
Today his grieving mum Lucy tells how YOU can help ensure youngsters like Felix get the support they so desperately need.
And she reveals how she believes her battle to bring his tormentors to justice is being blocked by Facebook.
Heartbroken Lucy is backing our Light Up Christmas For Children campaign to raise money for the NSPCC Childline counselling service.
Lucy and Felix in Madrid - one of her cherished photos with her son whose life was tragically cut short Felix, pictured on holiday, hid his torment and even his mum had no idea of the scale of his trauma Read More 'Murder manifesto' of teenager accused of slaughtering boy, 9, and sharing images on dark web At the moment a quarter of the kids who call the NSPCC’s 0800 1111 number fail to get through because the charity needs £500,000 to train more volunteers. The Sunday Mirror campaign aims to plug that gap.
Lucy said: “I support it all the way. Any child going through what Felix did needs access to all the resources possible. And if a child makes that call to Childline, it’s so important they receive the help they need.
“I don’t know if it would have saved Felix. But what I can say is that Felix felt very isolated.
“If something like that had been available to him in that moment that could have only been positive.”
Lucy also told how she feels her battle to bring to justice those responsible for her son’s death was being frustrated by ­Facebook.
She believes Felix’s online messages hold vital clues about his final days that would assist the police inquiry.
But today – 19 months on – Lucy, 52, is still denied access to his profile because of privacy restrictions.
Grieving Lucy said: “Private messages were where the real nastiness took place. It could hold clues about what Felix was going through.
“I appreciate Facebook has rules but given the circumstances it feels like they are being obstructive.”
After Felix died a friend “memorialised” his profile so it could be used for tributes.
Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now The youngster was a keen snowboarder and loved the outdoors Read More Headteacher who starred in Come Dine With Me and killed himself after cops searched home for indecent images "committed no crime" But that means no one else can access the profile without a court order – a hurdle part-time nurse Lucy has yet to tackle.
Police can request such information if they meet Facebook’s criteria for “legal sufficiency”.
The policy is part of the internet giant’s rules on protecting users’ privacy – even after death.
Lucy, an ambassador for mental health charity Place 2 B, hopes the issue will be discussed as part of Prince William’s new campaign targeting cyberbullying.
The Worcester mum met the Duke of Cambridge last week. He launched his Stop, Speak and Support initiative – which was partly shaped by Felix’s ordeal.
Wills teamed up with parents, charities including the NSPCC, tech giants like Google and BT, and online platforms Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and SnapChat.
Lucy shared an emotional meeting with Wills and trolls’ victim Chloe Hine – who attempted suicide at just 13. Chloe, from Havant, Hants, is now 17 and also campaigns against bullying.
Police can request such information if they meet Facebook’s criteria for “legal sufficiency”.
The policy is part of the internet giant’s rules on protecting users’ privacy – even after death.
Lucy, an ambassador for mental health charity Place 2 B, hopes the issue will be discussed as part of Prince William’s new campaign targeting cyberbullying.
Lucy is calling on Facebook to let her see Felix's messages (Image: Ben Alexander) Read More Teen commits suicide after 'ex-boyfriend posted intimate photos of her online' The Worcester mum met the Duke of Cambridge last week. He launched his Stop, Speak and Support initiative – which was partly shaped by Felix’s ordeal.
Wills teamed up with parents, charities including the NSPCC, tech giants like Google and BT, and online platforms Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and SnapChat.
Lucy shared an emotional meeting with Wills and trolls’ victim Chloe Hine – who attempted suicide at just 13. Chloe, from Havant, Hants, is now 17 and also campaigns against bullying.
Lucy added: “It was bittersweet and very emotional. Prince William has the heart and determination to make this go somewhere. Meeting Chloe gave me an insight into how Felix must have felt at his darkest times. And meeting me made her realise how her own mum would have felt had she taken her life.”
Over the summer Lucy also met members of the campaign task force and a focus group of youngsters at the NSPCC headquarters.
She said: “It’s so important that the NSPCC is involved. There were a couple of things I felt needed tweaking in the video they showed me and I was very honest about it.”
Felix was 10 when bullying began and it continued through secondary school. Lucy explained: “Even kids who’d never met Felix sent hateful messages. Part of the problem was the sheer numbers.
“How do you exclude a whole year of students? For my older kids, social media was an enhancement. For Felix and others his age it’s a lifestyle – a replacement for socialising.”
The technology giant says its privacy rules don't allow anyone access to another person's messages (Image: Getty) Felix died on April 27 2016. Lucy added: “It’s like a bit of you is taken away that will never come back. You never get over it. I’m in a club no parent wants to be a part of.”
Sorting though her favourite pictures of Felix for the Sunday Mirror, Lucy said: “It’s heartbreaking. But I want people to look at them and think, why on earth would that happen? He’s just a normal lad. People need to see it could happen to any child.”
Lucy penned an open letter urging bullies to back off and has appeared on TV many times to highlight the issue. She gave Felix’s laptop and mobile phone to the police – plus a printout of one disturbing message.
Lucy said: “One particularly vile message urged him to commit suicide and film it. He’d kept it by his bed. But the police told me it was too hard to contextualise the messages and they could have been ‘banter’.”
Lucy, who has two other children, says youngsters must be taught online safety before getting a phone. And she said devices should be banned from bedrooms so social media isn’t “inescapable”.
Lucy also said schools need a better system to target cyber-bullies early, adding: “If the ringleaders bullying Felix had been dealt with in primary school, things would not have got to the stage they did.”
Carolyn Bunting, chief executive of online safety group Internet Matters, hailed the Stop, Speak and Support campaign as giving children “a brilliant, positive focus”.
She added: “Internet Matters is immensely proud to support such a relevant and significant campaign and be part of a task force working hard to combat cyberbullying.”
Lucy, meanwhile, revealed £50,000 has been raised for Place 2 B in Felix’s memory.
She smiled: “For a boy who thought nobody cared about him, it’s not a bad sum at all. We are going to keep going with this, so the figure will only grow.”
For more information on the campaign and children’s mental health visit place2be.org.uk and internetmatters.org Donate now To donate £4 text ‘NSPCC 4’ to 70744, to donate £12 text ‘NSPCC 12’ to 70744, to donate £20 text ‘NSPCC 20’ to 70744 or donate at nspcc.org.uk/mirror
Text costs include your donation of £4, £12 or £20 plus your standard network rate. The NSPCC will receive 100% of your donation. Find out how we work to keep more children safe every day at nspcc.org.uk
6 steps to protect kids online Talk about it... alert your children to the Stop, Speak and Support code. Beware what to share... discuss what is wise to put online. Learn about it... parents should find out if apps and games involve interacting with others. Take control... set app safety filters and privacy settings to “high”. Check regularly... for bullying. Tell kids they can always talk to you. Block and report... teach your children how to prevent or report abuse, including taking screengrabs. Parents must learn about the digital dangers By Adele Jennings
Blogger at ourfamilylife.co.uk
As parents we keep our children safe from dangers we can identify – crossing the road, making sure they wear a seatbelt etc.
But we can’t see perils online because our kids hold everything so close to them. My daughter used to love making YouTube videos.
But she deleted them all after she started secondary school. She told me: “People were taking the mickey, saying not very nice things.”
Prince William with Adele Jennings (right) (Image: Getty) I recognised just how it affected her. It made me realise parents must learn about their kids’ digital world and talk to them about it.
It was a privilege to meet Prince William to discuss the issue – and heartbreaking to hear from Lucy Alexander. We all need to get involved to end cyberbullying.
For more information, visit ourfamilylife.co.uk
 Daily Newsletter DailyMirror Follow @DailyMirror Subscribe to our Daily Nspcc Mental health Cyberbullying Bullying Facebook Suicide