Grouply: Facebook Group Member Extractor growthers 2017-11-02T11:44:20+00:00 The Facebook Group Member Extractor With Grouply you can find new B2B Leads within Facebook Groups – fast and easy. Our Customers Love Us A Chrome Extension for B2B Growth Marketers 
Get First Name, Last Name, Work Position, Profile URL, and Company Name from Facebook Group members – in an easy to use Chrome Extension. 
After you have gathered the member’s data, just export your list into a .CSV-file that can be used in other tools to get, for instance, business email addresses. 
It has never been easier to get access to the millions of Facebook Groups and their members before. “There are over 1 billion Groups on Facebook. It is a MASSIVE social network to help you find the ideal customer. This represents a great opportunity for marketers who want to connect with prospects. Consider it a primary social media channel for business owners.” – Neil Patel, KissMetrics A Facebook Group Member Extractor Gives You Everything You Need To Collect Emails Facebook Groups are a Gold Mine for Marketers 
Groups are a niché collection of people gathered in one highly engaged space. What if you could extract the name, Facebook profile URL, work position, and company name from these group members, and then use that data for customer prospecting. GROUPLY’s Process Your Target Audience at Your Finger Tips 1. FIND A GROUP You need to be able to see the members of the group you want to extract member data from. 2. START EXTRACTING Sit back while the scraping engine does it’s job. After a short while you will have a list of extracted members in your view. 3. DOWNLAD CSV Select what member data you want to export to your CSV-file, first name, last name, position, company, and profile URL. “GROUPLY radically changed things for us. It gave us a needed boost at launch, and helped us generate traffic and leads faster and better than any other method we’ve tried. We couldn’t have had access to such relevant audience without 10x more effort and spend. This tool is a must for any company needing to access the right target audience, right now. “ Anna Skaya – former CEO @ Groupon “Facebook is filled with market opportunities. GROUPLY helps you make the most out of it. Once you find groups matching your target audience, do a quick run with this simple Chrome extension and you got a qualified successful acquisition funnel.” Nils Poirier – Growth Hacker @ Phantombuster Pricing Plans Join hundreds of companies building higher converting audiences Important! Facebook is doing layout changes to the Member section of Facebook Groups that is affecting some account groups at different stages. If the trial works for you, then you’re good to go! Otherwise, sit tight and we’ll keep you posted. FREE TRIAL