nav_small_right Guinea fowl upstages sheep dog 0:35 
The dog-like antics of this guinea fowl owned by Meg Jewell are so impressive it now has its own Instagram page. See it in action in this video sent in by Nick Robertson, Homevale, Finley, NSW. November 20th 2017 2 days ago /display/newscorpaustralia.com/Web/NewsNetwork/Weekly Times/Agribusiness/ Identity crisis: The doglike antics of this guinea fowl owned by Meg Jewell are so impressive it now has its own Instagram page. Video: Nick Robertson, Homevale, Finley, NSW Guinea fowl that thinks it’s a dog goes viral on Facebook XAVIER DUFF, The Weekly Times November 22, 2017 9:33am 
HE IS the most unlikely sheep “dog” you will ever see and is now an internet star. 
Meet Guinea Dog, the sheep-wrangling bird with his own Instagram account and hundreds of followers on social media. 
And now, thanks to a video showing Guinea Dog in action, which went viral on The Weekly Times Facebook page on the weekend, his antics have been watched more than 1.3 million times. media_camera . 
Guinea Dog, who belongs to brother and sister Meg and Scott Jewell, from Finley, began life as a normal bird a bit over a year ago — but now thinks he is a Kelpie after adopting the farm’s sheep dogs as his new family. media_camera . 
“He was one of four keets that we thought had all been lost to a fox but then eventually found him hanging around the dog’s kennels. From then on he attached himself to them and began mimicking their behaviour,” Scott said. 
It wasn’t long before he was rounding up the sheep with the best of them, jumping at his woolly charges with feathers flying to keep them in line. 
“He even jumps on the ute with the other dogs,” Scott said. 
“But while he’s very good at being a sheep dog, he’s not much good at obeying commands — basically we can’t control him!” 
Guinea Dog’s canine family seem to accept the bird’s new found fame although one of them did go missing last Thursday. 
Turned out Jess was not trying to escape Guinea Dog’s limelight but went AWOL after being scared by a big storm that had passed over the farm. media_camera . 
Jess returned safe and well on Sunday. A post shared by Guinea (@guineadog_) on Jul 31, 2017 at 8:30pm PDT