News Alerts Happy Children's Day: Quotes, Wishes, SMS, WhatsApp & Facebook Messages Children's Day, or Bal Diwas, is celebrated in India on November 14 each year. The day marks Jawaharlal Nehru's birth anniversary. Here are 10 greetings you can send on Children's Day this year. Offbeat | NDTV Offbeat Desk | Updated: November 13, 2017 14:54 IST 1 Share PRINT COMMENTS Happy Children's Day 2017: Children's Day, or Bal Diwas, is celebrated in India on November 14 New Delhi: Children's Day , or Bal Diwas , is celebrated each year on November 14. The day marks Jawaharlal Nehru's birth anniversary. Pandit Nehru, or Chacha Nehru as he was fondly referred to, was India's first Prime Minister and known across the nation for his warm affection for children. Pandit Nehru was born on November 14, 1889. On Children's Day , children across the nation honour the memory of Chacha Nehru. Schools and colleges across India often organise fun-filled activities to mark the occasion of Children's Day.United Nations' Universal Children's Day, which was established in 1954, is celebrated on November 20 each year to promote international togetherness, awareness among children worldwide and improving children's welfare. Interestingly, India too previously celebrated Children's Day on November 20. That is until the death of Pandit Nehru in 1964, when it was unanimously decided to celebrate the leader's birthday as Bal Diwas or Children's Day in India. Happy Children's Day 2017: In India, Children's Day is celebrated on November 14 each year to mark Jawaharlal Nehru's birth anniversary Here are 10 greetings you can send via SMS or WhatsApp or share on Facebook or Twitter on Children's Day: "Let us sacrifice our today so that our children can have a better tomorrow." Happy Children's Day!"There's nothing more contagious than the laughter of young children; it doesn't even have to matter what they're laughing about." May you always find something to laugh about. Happy Children's Day"The greatest gifts you can give your children are the roots of responsibility and the wings of independence." May you fly to the greatest of heights and forever remain grounded! Happy Children's Day!Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru once said, "The children of today will make the India of tomorrow." Happy Children's Day!"There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children." On Chacha Nehru's birthday, my wish is for you to keep working towards an even brighter future for India. Happy Children's Day!"Children are one third of our population and all of our future." Happy Children's Day!You are the future of our great nation.Happy Children's Day"Children are great imitators. So give them something great to imitate." Here's wishing you a Happy Children's Day! "The best inheritance a parent can give his children is a few minutes of his time each day." Happy Children's Day! Happy Children's Day 2017: How are you celebrating Children's Day this year? How are you celebrating Children's Day or Bal Diwas this year? Do let us know in the comments section below.Happy Children's Day!Click for more trending news Trending