3 Browse Top Childrens Day Messages for Whatsapp [Total: 4 Average: 2.3/5] What could be better than sharing some amazing childrens day Status for whatsapp and facebook messages with your childhood friends? Each and every individual misses their own childhood days at some point of time. These form the most unmatchable days. Tiny benches, bench partners, strict yet caring teachers, mischiefs and loads of happiness are all the things that one remembers till now. Somethings we cannot buy and one such thing is our own childhood. So let us memorize the good days and share some outstanding children’s day whatsapp and facebook status and messages with your near and dear ones. Along with this, you can also find children’s day quotes here. Fill your whatsapp and facebook status wishing children a very Happy Childrens Day. Wishes works wonders in greeting someone on Childrens Day and send Happy Children’s day quotes and messages. Children Day is celebrated on 14 November every year and it marks the birth anniversary of the First Prime Minister of India, Chacha Nehru . Here we are going to share some amazing Happy Childrens Day images and quotes with all of them. Childrens Day Status for Whatsapp Browse Top Childrens Day Status for Whatsapp Dear children! A smile of yours can show heaven on earth. A twinkle of your eyes can still us for ages. Happy children’s day. God Bless. Childhood is like being drunk…. Everyone remembers what you did… EXCEPT YOU! Wish you all a Happy Children’s Day! Childhood is about innocence and playfulness. It is about joy and freedom. Happy Children’s Day..!! 14 Nov is children’s Day ! Do you know why ? Bcoz 9 months ago same day it was 14 Feb Valentine’s Day ! Happy Children’s Day If You Carry Your Childhood With You, You Never Become Older, Wish You All a Happy Children’s Day! Let us sacrifice our today so that our children can have a better tomorrow. There r some things, many can’t buy, 1 of such thing is our childhood, enjoy the spirit of children’s day, Happy Children’s Day! The wonders of a child can only be understood by the child. Never miss an opportunity to tell your child, “I love you”. A child is a curly dimpled lunatic. Happy Children’s Day! Childrens Day Status for Whatsapp Browse Top Childrens Day Status for Facebook The first happiness of a child to know that he is loved. – Don Bosco Every child comes with the message that God is not yet discouraged of man. – Rabindranath Tagore Children are natural zen masters; their world is brand new in each and every moment. – John Bradshaw Every child is a different kind of flower, and all together, make this world a beautiful garden. Our children can achieve great things when we set high expectations for them. – Jeb Bush Children Are Like A Wet Cement. Whatever Falls On Them Makes An Impression. HAPPY CHILDRENS DAY! Only where children gather is there any real chance of fun. – Mignon McLaughlin Make it a rule never to give a child a book you would not read yourself. May the love n laughter always stay on every child’s face. Happy Children’s Day! We, the children of the world… Are symbols of promise… and potential Happy Children’s Day! Children need love, especially when they do not deserve it. Happy Children’s Day..!! Every child is a different kind of flower, and all together, make this world a beautiful garden. Children are the world’s most valuable resource and its best hope for the future…!! Let us try to make this world a safer place for the little ones to live happy. Happy Children’s Day Children R the best creation of god and they spread joy in every season. Happy Children’s Day We worry about what a child will become tomorrow, Yet we forget that he is someone today. Happy Children Day You can learn many things from children. How much patience you have for instance. We worry about what a child will become tomorrow, yet we forget that he is someone today. Children are the world’s most valuable resource and its best hope for the future. Browse Top Childrens Day Messages for Whatsapp Childrens Day Status for Whatsapp Happy Childrens Day is the day for childrens of the country. In this day, childrens of all schools do not study and play games. You can get the Children’s Day speech, essay and poems from our site. Every year, Childrens Day is celebrated on 14th November. Celebrate Happy Childrens Day status and images on whatsapp, facebook or other social networking sites. We are providing an amazing collection for childrens day, find the best one for yourself and wish all your friends and relatives on this very special day. For more updates on children day whatsapp and facebook messages, status, poems, etc, stay tuned to our site. Wishing you all Happy Children Day 2017! Like Whatsapp Lovers