> Buzz Happy Children’s Day: Best WhatsApp Messages, GIF Images, Facebook Posts and SMS Quotes to Wish Children’s Day 2017 Happy Children’s Day: Best WhatsApp Messages, GIF Images, Facebook Posts and SMS Quotes to Wish Children’s Day 2017 Updated: November 13, 2017 5:41 PM IST By Shruti Venkatesh It is that time of the year again when all of us walk down the memory lane and wish we could go back to being kids. Every year, November 14th is celebrated as Children’s Day across India. This day is celebrated in fond memory of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, who was known for his love for children. Nehru, also lovingly called ‘Chacha Nehru’ was born on November 14, 1889. For Children’s Day, we have compiled a list of WhatsApp Messages, GIF Images, Facebook Posts and SMS Quotes that we can send our little ones or maybe read out to them. Children’s Day Quotes: Best and Famous Quotes Which Will Make You Relive Your Childhood This Bal Diwas 2017 Read more Along with his contributions to India’s freedom struggle, Nehru is also credited with laying the foundation of a strong educational infrastructure in India. Some of the premium educational institutions, like All India Institute of Medical Sciences, or AIIMS, Indian Institutes of, and Indian Institutes of Management, were initiated by Nehru. Until 1964, India celebrated Children’s Day on the November 20, which is the Universal Children’s Day celebrated by the United Nations. The United Nations adopted the Declaration of the Rights of the Child on November 20, 1959, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child on November 20, 1989. Most nations observe Children’s Day on 20th November. In India, after the death of Jawaharlal Nehru in 1964, November 14 was declared as Children’s Day as an ode to his love for children. Children’s Day is also popularly known as ‘Bal Diwas’ in Hindi and is dedicated to Nehru’s love for children. Here is a compilation of 10 Children’s Day messages that you could send to the children to make the day special for them, or just have a read and reminisce your childhood memories. Message:If you plant honesty, you will reap trust.If you plant goodness, you will reap friends.If you plant humility, you will reap greatness.Happy Children’s Day! Message: Every child is a different kind offlower and all together, make this worlda beautiful garden. Happy Children’s Day! Childhood is all about being wild,having fun and enjoying a carefree lifeEnjoy your childhood till it lasts.Happy Children’s Day! Message: There are some things, money can’t buy,One of such things is our childhood,enjoy the spirit of Children’s Day…Happy Children’s Day!