Search Hero painter caught robber after recognising his description from Facebook 
A hero captured a robber who had been targeting the streets of Chilwell and Beeston after he recognised his description from Facebook. House painter Nick Martin's action led to a four-year jail term and deportation for Claudio Rosu at Nottingham Crown Court. A judge praised Mr Martin, who had previously heard the screams of an 82-year-old woman Rosu had attacked in a Chilwell alleyway. A few days later, Mr Martin saw a Facebook description of the offender and spotted him again while out shopping with his mother in Beeston. Following the sentencing he said: "That is a very good sentence... read more Street-attack victim Daphne reunited with hero who tackled robber 
He had discovered her bleeding on the pavement near her Loughborough home. A mugger had knocked out two of the 74-year-old's teeth and continued to hit the pensioner as she lay on the ground, before making off with her handbag. Mr Hynds sprinted... Leicester Mercury , 31 May 2012 in Regional East Robber caught after posting photo of haul on Facebook 
Three minutes later - 500 metres from the scene of their crime - Winfield took a photo of Hobson with the stolen bounty and posted it on Facebook. He also uploaded a photograph of Hobson's bloodied finger, which he had injured during the robbery.... Nottingham Post , 31 May 2013 in Regional East Leicester Mercury , 20 November 2013 in Regional East 'Real-life Golem' seen taking fish from river in Lincolnshire 
A fisherman has been caught on camera pinching fish out of a river in Lincolnshire. The fishermen, who is crouched over in a similar pose to Lord of Rings character Golem, was spotted beside River Welland in Spalding - rod in one hand, fish in another... Lincolnshire Echo , 27 October 2017 in Regional East Derby driver caught speeding five times in a month by the SAME camera 
A motorist from Derby has been banned from the roads after being caught by the same camera FIVE times in a month. Southern Derbyshire Magistrates' Court was told how Charlotte Phillips's first offence saw her snapped driving at 36mph in a 30mph limit... Derby Telegraph , 29 October 2017 in Regional East Watch out for this scam email that claims you've been caught speeding 
Drivers are being warned to look out for a scam email that claims that they have been caught speeding. But the email is sent to victims from hackers claiming to be from the Government or the police. Police are urging people to delete the message, as... Nottingham Post , 29 October 2017 in Regional East