3 hours ago Housing Advertisers Can Racially Discriminate on Facebook - Investigation Finds A year after Facebook claimed real estate companies wouldn’t be able to target users based on race, Anti-Vaccine Movement: Religious Objections, Once Rampant Across the Country, Suddenly Plateau - Newsweek (EDITORIAL from Korea JoongAng Daily on Nov. 22) - Yonhapnews Oxford graduate sues university for £1million because he did not get a first class degree - Telegraph UN chief condemns suicide attack that leaves dozens dead in northern Nigeria town - UN Sevilla snatch draw vs. Liverpool - espnfc.co The highest-paid models in the world have been revealed - Independent Piper the kitten is plucked from a pipe by firefighters at South Coast Plaza - Latimes Netflix s Barbra: The Music... The Mem ries... The Magic! captures Streisand in top form - Latimes White House visitor records revealed after Trump administration refuses to release them - Independent Understory is two artists ode to the American basement, and every surface is covered in felt - Latimes Self-harm rises sharply among tween and young teen girls, study shows - Latimes That s a big bird , watch Trump pardon Thanksgiving turkey - Telegraph Robert Mugabe resigns: World reaction - Aljazeera Doctor s diary This is Going to Hurt wins public vote for book of the year - Theguardian Rafael van der Vaart offered 2018 move to Indonesia s Bali United - report - espnfc.co Argentine navy and air force dispute operation of the five refurbished Super Etendard - Mercopress Who Is Kevin Jansen Neal? California School Shooter Was Another Angry White Man With A Record Of Violence Against Women - Newsweek Yonhapnews © 2014 Shafaqna.com All Rights Reserved. English News strongly believes in 'circulation of information' for public interest and we would therefore carefully use your material in a non-commercial way. English News is just a News Reader using automatic input devices. Thus, the main publishers and sources are clearly responsible for their content. ﻿