A Russia-backed Facebook ad. Thanks to testimony this week from representatives of Twitter, Facebook, and Google to the Senate Judiciary Committee over what the heck happened online during the 2016 election, House Democrats on the Intelligence Committee released the ads Russia purchased and ran during and after the election. The subject of the ads range from pro-Trump and Clinton-hating spots — Satan arm wrestling with Jesus who is determined to keep him, and Hillary Clinton, from winning — to anti-Muslim rhetoric, to ads targeted at people involved in the Black Lives Matter movement.
Perhaps more interesting than the imagery — a half-dressed cartoon Bernie Sanders with six-pack abs — in the ads themselves is the metadata the committee also released. In those figures, you can see exactly whom Russia was trying to reach with each ad in its disinformation campaign and how much it spent to get the ads in front of their eyes. Approximately 300 million eyes (that’s, I’ll do the math for you, 150 million people). Facebook announced earlier this week that Kremlin-sponsored content reached an approximate 150 million Americans during the course of the election. You can see all of the ads and data here and here , but we’ve collated a handful below to give you an overall sense of what Russia was working with.
House Democrats also released a list of Russia-sponsored Twitter bots used during the 2016 election. You can see that here .
Tags: russia facebook election 2016 These Are the Bogus Ads Russia Planted on Facebook Can Razer Sell a Phone Made for Gamers? These Are the Bogus Ads Russia Planted on Facebook During the Election The Internet’s Most Famous Frozen Fan Denies Running a Fetish Blog Most Viewed Stories This Might Be the Most Insane and Depressing Fake-News Story Yet The Sad Truth Behind the Viral Internet Story of Sanjay and Durgesh The ‘Sh*tty Men in Media’ List Has Officially Been Weaponized This YouTuber Is Figuring Out How to Counter the Alt-Right’s Dominance of the Site This New York Times Website Comment Is the Single Best Comment of the Year Popular on Select All Select All videos Promoted links by Taboola Comments Latest News from Select All 10 mins ago Can Razer Sell a Phone Made for Gamers? Razer is making a ridiculously overpowered phone for gamers.
4:41 p.m. These Are the Bogus Ads Russia Planted on Facebook During the Election “Press ‘LIKE’ to help Jesus win!”
3:55 p.m. The Internet’s Most Famous Frozen Fan Denies Running a Fetish Blog Constable-Frozen says that his fan blog has nothing to do with vore.
1:44 p.m. CIA Confirms ‘Charlie Bit My Finger’ Was on One of Osama bin Laden’s Computers Yes, you read that right.
1:05 p.m. On Twitter, the Christmas Season Starts Today If you listen closely, you can hear the faint whisper of “All I Want for Christmas Is You” playing in the distance.
8:35 a.m. The Best Cases for Your Shiny New iPhone X If you just dropped $1,000 on a new iPhone X, you’re gonna need a case.
Yesterday at 5:36 p.m. Question of the Day: Who Got an iPhone X, and When? Apple breaks tradition about what media outlets get an early look at an iPhone, and not everyone is happy about it.
Yesterday at 4:40 p.m. The Most Important Questions Congress Needs to Ask This Week Forget Russia. Is Facebook itself the problem?
Yesterday at 4:21 p.m. Here’s How to Download Apple’s 70 New Emoji Highlights include an adorable porcupine, a cursing face that also censors itself, and a curling stone (for all of your curling-related emoji needs).
Yesterday at 3:20 p.m. This Might Be the Most Insane and Depressing Fake-News Story Yet No, Columbia students didn’t march in open defense of pedophilia. Yes, tens of thousands of people — at least — thought they did.
Yesterday at 1:28 p.m. The Best Meme Costumes of Halloween 2017 It’s going to be hard for anybody to top a Mr. Krabs “one thicc bih” costume.
Yesterday at 12:42 p.m. What Happens to the Internet After a Disaster? How New York City is building local networks that will survive the next Sandy.
Yesterday at 11:14 a.m. Google Docs Is Locking Out Users for Seemingly No Good Reason Several users are reporting getting a “terms of service violation” notification.
Yesterday at 10:09 a.m. What to Expect When Tech Companies Meet With Congress A lot of ad regulation, few long-term solutions.
Yesterday at 8:41 a.m. The Sad Truth Behind the Viral Internet Story of Sanjay and Durgesh Last week, the Meme Ballad of Sanjay and Durgesh went viral, but the real story is much, much darker.
10/30/2017 at 6:01 p.m. Apple Turns to YouTubers for Early iPhone X Hands-on Reviews Want to get hands-on impressions of Apple’s $1,000 phone? Head to YouTube.
10/30/2017 at 5:52 p.m. Looking to Dip Your Toe in the Alexa Pool? The Echo Dot Is on Sale Right Now Please come join us in The Future.
10/30/2017 at 2:18 p.m. This YouTuber Is Figuring Out How to Counter the Right’s Dominance of the Site ContraPoints’s videos are funny, gonzo, and smart — and follow a format specifically designed to fight the far right’s dominance of YouTube.
10/30/2017 at 12:13 p.m. This Is the Only Good Way to Do the ‘Distracted Boyfriend Meme’ Costume Turns out, you don’t need two other people to form a love triangle, just a color printer.
10/30/2017 at 10:19 a.m. People Are Having a Lot of Fun in Super Mario Odyssey ’s Hallucinatory Fun Ride The entire game looks like a cartoon.