Authentic-sounding page name and photo 1 Image is from an official government website, lending legitimacy 2 Divisive language targeting the electoral process 3 sounding page name and photo Image is from an official government website, lending legitimacy Divisive language targeting the electoral process According to a March 2017 congressional testimony by Clint Watts, from George Washington University’s Center for Cyber and Homeland Security, spreading fake content is another Russian strategy aimed at undermining trust in information sources. How they spread: Fabricated profiles, pages and groups A Facebook white paper in April outlined some of the methods organizations have used to create “false amplification” of content. This includes coordinated campaigns of likes, shares and comments from fake accounts, such as those set up by Russian-controlled organizations. These campaigns were conducted both on Russian-created posts and legitimate posts by news outlets and public figures. According to Facebook , there are several places ads can appear on its platforms, including the right sidebar and interspersed throughout the main news feed. Users can share, react to or comment on ads that appear in their news feed in the same way they can on any ordinary Facebook post. Each ad also includes the profile photo and name of the page that sponsored it. Engaging with ads by hitting a “like” button or some other action can help a post or ad spread beyond its initial target and across Facebook. Reach of Russian-generated content extended beyond ads Russian troll pages paid to promote about 3,000 ads. 11.4 million people Reach of ads linked to Russian troll pages Some people who saw the ads liked the pages that promoted them. People also shared the ads, which made them show up in their own or friends’ feeds. Names of friends who like this page. Advertiser or page name Text of advertisement or boosted post. Russian Title of the posted link Link text to outside content or another website. WEBSITE URL The troll pages created 80,000 posts on their pages until they were shut down. 126 million people Total reach of the 80,000 posts created by Russian troll pages Reach of Russian-generated content extended beyond ads Russian troll pages paid to promote about 3,000 ads. 11.4 million people Reach of ads linked to Russian troll pages Some people who saw the ads liked the pages that promoted them. People also shared the ads, which made them show up in their own or friends’ feeds. Russian