How To Get Facebook To Recognize When You’ve Updated Your Shuffle Card by Lynn Huber on November 6, 2017 
I know this can be really frustrating when you’re using a Shuffle Card to promote each campaign, so I have a tip for you today. 
You’ve created a Shuffle Card for your Avon Campaign. You’ve posted it on Facebook, and many people have come and looked at your Shuffle Campaign Card. It’s working great! 
Now, it’s a new Avon Campaign, and you’ve edited the card to reflect the new campaign, and post it on Facebook… and it’s the old card that comes up! 
Many Reps have gotten frustrated and thought they needed to create a new Shuffle Card every campaign. But that’s not true. 
Facebook uses a technology where, whenever it sees a link, it stores the information in a database. It’s sort of like cookies on your computer. 
When you post the same link a week or two later, Facebook doesn’t actually go to the link to get the correct image – it automatically pulls it from it’s own database. That’s how Facebook keeps its site quick and efficient, even though there are millions of people on it every day. 
So all you have to do is tell Facebook that you’ve changed your card. It’s easy, and I’m going to show you how right now! 
So here’s my current Campaign 25, 2017 card. 
When I go to post it on Facebook, this is what I get… 
Not quite what I wanted. 
So I’m going to take advantage of Facebook’s Developer Tools at this link: 
Hint, you’ll want to add this to your bookmarks 🙂 
I entered my Shuffle Card’s link, and clicked on Debug 
Notice, it pulls up my old card. You’ll also see some warnings, and lots of information you probably won’t understand. You can just ignore those. Just click on Scrape Again. 
Most of the time I have to click on Scrape Again two times before it actually gets the correct image. But now it is showing the correct image. 
Now when I go over to Facebook to post my Shuffle Campaign link, this is what I see. 
And there you go… all fixed! 
So get out there and edit your Shuffle Cards as much as you want! 
And if you don't have a Shuffle Account yet, click on my card , and you'll be given an option to create one for yourself. It's free for 14 days, and then only $10 a month. The best $10 a month I ever spent! 🙂 
Learn more about Shuffle here . 
p.s. This tip is not only for Shuffle cards. It will also work with any link you're trying to post to Facebook that's having problems! 
<—— Did this article help you? If so, it would mean a lot to me if you would share it with others!!! And, share your comments below! I would LOVE to know more about you and your thoughts on this subject! 
Let’s have some conversation! 
EXPECT Success! 
Join our OnlineBeautyBiz Facebook Group for more support Related Posts: