How to Effectively Market Your Brand on Facebook By 0 SHARE 
Marketing involves how to communicate your brand to people. In the last few years, the trend of marketing has evolved from the regular traditional marketing to online marketing. This paradigm shift has brought about lots of positive changes to the business world. 
For instance, Facebook is the world’s most famous social network with over 1.8 billion subscribers. Some benefits of online marketing ensure that it exposes your brand to a broader coverage, increased brand awareness, assists you to reach people faster, connect prospective customers and most importantly, improve sales. 
Here are a few tips on how to use Facebook for marketing. 
1. First, create a Facebook business page . This is different from the usual personal page. At the bottom of your page there is a “create page” column, click on it and follow the instructions to create a business page for your brand. 
2. Next invite friends to like your page and through your friends, their friends would see the page and probably like it too. 
3. Add a call to action button at the top of your page to make it easy for people to take specific actions. The call to action button could be “call now” or “send a message” or a link to your website. It is worthy to note that Facebook would not allow you access the call to action button until you have reached a minimum of 30 likes on your page. 
4. Create effective posts . Posts that are visual, short and created for the right audience especially with catchy headlines usually get more comments, shares, and likes. Publish positions to suit your target audience and appeal specifically to them. 
5. Create an offer or an event post ; this would get people more engaged and more interested. 
There are some vital points to be noted to harness the Facebook platform efficiently. First, every business has a story, use that medium to gain people’s attention, tell them the business challenges you faced and how you overcame them. 
Note your business objectives and use them in advertising, learn to differentiate between your consumers and your customers. Consumers are those who would make you famous but never buy, while the customers are those that buy from you. 
Finally what makes your business unique? Why would someone patronize you above all other similar brands? Harness these aspects and get more people patronizing your brands. Pls Share