Mark Mahaney an hour ago In his latest ‘Buying for Value’ Column, Michael Williams talks to a few real men of style about how they got they got their Rolexes and Pateks. 
What does it mean to wear a watch in this day and age? Meetings all have reminders, TV shows stream on demand, and your scheduled Uber will pick you up right when you need to head out to the airport. In our digital world, time is omnipresent. And with our streamlined, endlessly multi-tasking technology, there's no real reason to fasten a miniature machine to your wrist that just measures the position of the earth in relation to the sun. But yet: There's something about these things . Not only are watches sophisticated and mesmerizing bits of wizardly analog engineering; buying them also tends to mark the most significant moments in our lives. I think a good watch is the most important unimportant thing you could ever buy. 
You probably don't need me to tell you that once you get in the game, your newfound love of watches will lead you down an insane horological rabbit hole. Next thing you know, you'll be quoting Rolex reference numbers, devoting all your spare cash to watches on your want list, and casually name-checking Ben Clymer as if he were an NFL quarterback. 
My personal watch obsession began with an inexpensive U.S. Army–issue Hamilton watch (which you can find on the vintage market for about $200). It was my first mechanical watch, and it made me fall in love with automatics. The IWC Portuguese Automatic was the first big watch that I really freaked out over. I saw it on Madison Avenue on my lunch break and swore that I would come back for it one day. Four years later, after I landed a big client, I returned to take it home. (My IWC retails for $12,700 now; I paid about $7,500. So: Money well spent.) I remember my first week with that watch. The swagger was real. It meant so much more to me than just the splurge. I will never part with that watch, and to this day, every time I wear it, I think about where I've been and all the ways my work has been rewarding. 
Another prized watch is my Jaeger-LeCoultre Grande Reverso Ultra Thin Tribute to 1931, which my wife, Liz, gave me on our wedding day. My wife proved she's not just brains and good looks—she's also got incredible taste. The Reverso is an iconic design, has an amazing movement, and is beloved by watch nerds. It's a nice reminder of the luckiest day of my life. 
All told, I've got somewhere around 15 serious watches, but that hasn't stopped me from lusting after the many old and new novelties that are still out there for the next big life milestone. A Rolex Daytona is high on the list, as is the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak 15202. I also have my eye on the Ressence Type 1, and the Lange 1 from A. Lange & Söhne. Oh, and the Cartier Drive. That's a modern classic. No wonder I own more than a dozen watches. 
Obviously, it's not just me. There are a lot of men walking around out there with interesting and highly personal stories on their wrists. In fact, here are two watch histories from a couple of men of style I respect. Yuki Matsuda 
Founder and designer, Yuketen and Monitaly 1970 Rolex Submariner Ref. 1680 
Yuki grew up in Japan but has been living in Southern California for over three decades. He's a footwear and apparel designer, and he got his start in the business in 1983, working in a retail store in his hometown of Osaka. The shop dealt in authentic American and European clothing items, like Levi's 501 jeans, Big Mac shirts, Adidas that were made in France, and a bunch of vintage Rolex watches. Every day, Yuki would tinker with the huge selection of cool old watches that his shop was selling. The owner of the store became his mentor and taught him all about the subtleties of vintage timepieces. Eventually, Yuki got into the game and bought a vintage self-winding Rolex. Now Yuki's collection has grown to almost 50 watches, some valuable and rare, and some just quirky and cool. His watch-buying strategy has more to do with finding watches that fit his varying personal style than with long-term-investment value or flexing on Instagram. 
The thing that really impresses me is that Yuki is a collector's collector, and his focus goes far beyond just watches. In fact, he has a warehouse full of vintage clothing. He visits antiques markets across America and throughout Europe almost obsessively. He loves the popular Rose Bowl Flea Market and its lesser-known sibling, the Pasadena City College Flea. “Between 1990 and 1995, I was a dealer, buying and selling watches,” Yuki says. “I would go to flea markets, watch shows, or military shows and buy watches. Back then it was more of a treasure hunt. You would find it cheap and then you would sell for a couple hundred dollars and make a little profit. But now the prices have gone up like crazy.” 
That said, Yuki seems more interested in finding unique pieces that look cool. He owns several Panerai watches from the reincarnation of the brand in the late 1990s. At that time, people weren't really wearing watches over 40 mm, but Yuki loved the unexpected size and shape of those Panerais. “Watches are sort of like jewelry for a guy,” he says. “You can play around with them and change them out depending on what clothes you're wearing or how you want to look. ” 
Some of his most prized pieces include a few of his father's classic stainless-steel Seikos from Japan and a near perfect “bubbleback” Rolex with box and papers. Even though Yuki is always buying, selling, and trading watches, there's one Rolex Submariner that is the most important piece to him. It's a rare “Red Sub” that was given to him by his mentor from the clothing shop back in Osaka. “This watch is part of my body,” he tells me. “I would never sell it.” Scott Trattner 
VP executive creative director, Facebook Patek Philippe Aquanaut Ref. 5066 
Scott Trattner owns only one watch. I don't blame him: It's a Patek Philippe Aquanaut that his father gave him. He wears it every day and with everything. Starting with a Patek is like playing the first baseball game of your life with the Yankees, but Scott pulls it off. “My dad once bought a Patek Philippe at an antiques market, and he really loved the brand,” Scott tells me. “So at one point in the mid-'90s, I helped him find a new Patek that he could wear every day. Although it's gold, it has a rubber strap, which downplays its look a little bit.” 
The watch is special, but what really puts it over the top is the quote from Socrates that Scott's father had engraved on the case: “The unexamined life is not worth living.” (Apparently, Scott's father was ahead of the curve on the whole mindfulness movement that's currently hitting full-blown-craze levels in Silicon Valley—and echoing across the business world.) “My dad has been pretty thoughtful in the way he's lived,” Scott says. “He's present about how he leans into life, so the quote spoke to him.” 
One of the things Scott likes about the watch, which his father eventually gifted to him on his 42nd birthday, is the fact that it's a bit out of the ordinary for a creative guy in his mid-40s living in San Francisco. “In a way, it's not immediately the watch that I would wear,” Scott says. “It's a little unexpected for me, and I like that about it. I wouldn't have necessarily gone out and bought this watch for myself, but the fact that my father gave it to me makes it really special.” Scott's not someone who needs a different watch for every outfit, and he wears his Aquanaut regardless of occasion or attire. In fact, the only time he takes it off is to go surfing. “I think this watch fits in with my aesthetic because of the contrast it creates,” Scott says. “I'm dressed down on the day-to-day, and it's a pretty fancy watch. If I was someone who dressed pretty fancy, I don't think it would be as cool.” 
Scott has also had his eye on a Rolex Explorer ref. 1016, but I think it's telling that he hasn't bought it yet. There's something pretty poetic about being a one-watch guy, especially when it's a custom-engraved Patek handed down from Dad himself. 
Michael Williams is the founder of the blog A Continuous Lean—and many other stellar menswear-related projects. EDITOR’S PICK