English How to easily add your logo on Facebook Live from mobile מאת Geva Telem Tuesday, October 31, 2017 Facebook Live facebook , Facebook Live , guide , how to , live Permalink 0 
You probably know you can add your own logo as well as many other overlay graphic layers to Facebook Live, but there’s no easy way to do it without using 3rd party software like OBS, Livestream, Wirecast and others and will only work on desktop, what do you do when you go live from your mobile phone? 
On December 2016 Facebook released the Facebook Frames platform, enabling users to create their own business or personal frames. Now you can use those custom frames on Facebook Live from your mobile, thus adding your logo/ graphic overlay on Facebook Live. How to easily add your logo on Facebook Live? 
First things first: Make sure you have your desired logo/ graphic in a transparent PNG file. 
Go to the Facebook Frames Studio and start creating your own frame. 
Drag and drop the PNG file and place it in the desired position based on the preview screens on the right. 
Adjust the size so it doesn’t hide important parts in your video. 
Once you finish designing, give your frame a name and make sure it’s active immediately (unless your frame is for a future event). You can add tags for more visibility, especially if you want others to use it. 
If you want it to be real public share it and encourage your friends and followers to use it as well. It can be used as a profile photo frame, a regular photo frame for new Facebook posts and your Facebook Live logo. 
Once you publish it, it’s out there. The next time you go live from your mobile, click the “wand” button on the bottom left of your Facebook Live screen and scroll through dozens of branded custom frames until you reach yours. You can also change frames while you are live, it won’t be easy finding the one you want while on-air, but it’s doable. 

That’s it, you now have your own Facebook Live logo on mobile. 
Looking for the best mobile phone photography accessories? Read here .