share Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Senior executives from Facebook, Google and Twitter will submit on Tuesday to the first of three grueling grillings before U.S. lawmakers who are investigating Russia’s suspected interference in the 2016 presidential election. Kicking it off is the Senate Judiciary Committee’s top crime and terrorism panel, chaired by Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham. The focus is on the extent to which Kremlin-backed agents and trolls sought to spread disinformation and extremist content on major social media platforms — and what, exactly, the U.S. Congress should do about it. Representing Facebook at the hearing is Colin Stretch, the company’s general counsel; from Google it’ll be Rich Salgado, the search giant’s director of law enforcement and information security; and standing in for Twitter is Sean Edgett, the company’s acting general counsel. The hearing officially begins at 2:30 pm ET/11:30 am PT, and you can watch live here . We’ll update this post with embedded video once it becomes available. Lawmakers on two other committees — the House and Senate Intelligence Committees — will press tech executives at two back-to-back hearings beginning tomorrow morning. Update: You can also watch a PBS livestream of the hearings live on Twitter right here or below on the Washington Post’s Facebook Live. Facebook, Twitter, and Google testify 
Facebook, Twitter, and Google representatives are about to testify before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee about Russian disinformation online. Political anchor Libby Casey talks to Silicon Valley correspondent Elizabeth Dwoskin and video reporter Jordan Frasier about the first of three Senate hearings focused on Russian meddling in the 2016 election. http://wapo.st/2iMVJTG Posted by Washington Post on Tuesday, October 31, 2017 Subscribe to the Recode newsletter Sign up for our Recode Daily newsletter to get the top tech and business news stories delivered to your inbox. Your email Go By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy. recode_divider