How Westpac stays in tune with the Facebook generation Share by Tony Boyd 
It is impossible to conduct a one-on-one interview with Brian Hartzer without the Westpac Banking Corp chief executive showing off the bank's latest technology. 
On Monday he pulled out his iPhone X to show off the facial recognition security allowing access to the Westpac banking app. Next, Hartzer showed off the latest miniature Westpac credit card that can fit inside a small red sleeve that attaches to his Apple watch. 
Hartzer is trying to send a strong message to Westpac shareholders that the bank is well positioned to ride the changes caused by advances in smart phones, data analytics and changes in customer behaviour. 
Of course, shareholders could be forgiven for thinking Westpac is ex-growth given that its dividend has been stuck at 94¢ a share for five successive halves and its cash earnings rose by 3.8 per cent over the past two years. 
Hartzer argues that Westpac must keep pace with all technology developments in banking in order to stay in tune with the Facebook generation, which has expanded to 2.07 billion people. Related Quotes View all announcements 
"Customer behaviour is changing very rapidly and we need to embrace this and recognise that this is happening and it's going to affect all industries eventually and financial services is absolutely not immune and perhaps increasingly affected by it," he says. Migration to digital banking 
He says Westpac must step up its digital engagement with customers in every area of its business whether it is business banking, retail banking or wealth management. 
The latest data on customer behaviour from the full year results show the consistent migration to digital banking. Digitally active customers rose 14 per cent to 4.53 million over the past two years, digital sales rose 35 per cent over the same period and digital transactions rose 19.6 per cent. 
Branch transactions have slumped 36 per cent to 21.7 million since 2015. 
Almost three quarters of digitally active customers use mobiles for their banking. 
Hartzer says Westpac's mini credit card, which was made available to customers last week, was an idea developed overseas and brought to Australia. Westpac has exclusive first use rights. 
The essence of every banking relationship is the transaction account. Westpac is doing well in this area having added 1 million new clients since 2015 to reach 10.84 million business and consumer retail customers in Australia and more than 2.5 million in New Zealand. 
The bank's commitment to new technology is clear from the launch of Panorama, a wealth management platform developed by BT Financial Group at a cost believed to be in excess of $500 million. 
Hartzer says the Panorama platform helped BT Financial Group add $4 billion to funds under management in the year to September. The real kick to earnings from wealth will come when the BT Wrap and Asgard wealth platforms are phased out. 
"Panorama is going to give us a real scale benefit in a market where administration fees will come down," he says. 
Hartzer says tied products in Australia are dead and the business system of tied advisers is heading the same way. It is for this reason he believes the growth in Panorama will come from other financial planners using the platform. Commitment to wealth 
Hartzer says Westpac's commitment to wealth is something that distinguishes it from its competitors. 
"That is good, fee-based, high ROE business with legislated growth," he says. 
Westpac's other competitive advantage, according to Hartzer, is the flexibility of pricing that goes with having several banking brands including Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne, BankSA and Rams. 
So where will the money come from to fund Westpac's technology investments at a time when rivals such as National Australia Bank are stepping up their tech investment? 
Hartzer says it starts with a strong balance sheet. Westpac's common equity tier 1 ratio is now 10.6 per cent, the same as ANZ Banking Group. The prudential regulator has set a benchmark of 10.5 per cent to qualify for the "unquestionably strong" classification of capital. 
Having reached the 10.5 per cent marker for CET 1 Westpac can avoid using a dividend reinvestment plan to build capital. 
Westpac generates about $2 billion to $3 billion a year in organic capital. It now has choices as to where that money is invested. 
Hartzer says there is work to do at Westpac to streamline products, consolidate the back end systems and achieve a step change in efficiency over the medium term. 
But above all he wants to establish Westpac as the best place to work in Australian banking. To do that he says the bank must have a strong and inclusive culture, be known for its willingness to invest in people and technology and not stand in the way of people wanting to have great careers elsewhere. 
"That adds up to a pretty powerful machine," he says.