Happy Wednesday, MarketWatchers! We are halfway through the week. Here are the top personal finance stories of the day. 
Personal Finance Senator and Purple Heart recipient: By restricting class-action lawsuits, Trump would hurt veterans Members of the military have historically been the targets of predatory lenders . 

How the next Federal Reserve chair could affect you and your mortgage Trump’s choice could have an influence on mortgage rates for years to come . 

5 really annoying things Facebook should change today The biggest social network on the planet should seriously consider updating these features. 

8 most important things to know about the GOP tax plan From the child care credit to the AMT and estate tax , here’s how the proposed changes could impact you. 

Obamacare enrollment begins today Don’t get confused by the tumult — the death of the Affordable Care Act has been greatly exaggerated. 
What it’s like to play in a World Series: ‘After each game, it feels like you’ve played 10 games’ Former All-Star Steve Finley on what he learned playing 19 years in MLB — and how to help today’s players save for retirement. 

Audible’s new service helps romance novel fans skip straight to ‘the good part’ The Amazon subsidiary aims to cash in on the genre’s digital savvy . 

Amazon’s Alexa now knows your credit score Experian hopes the skill will especially appeal to millennials — but using it will cost you. 

AmEx and Hilton announce new card perks, including one card with no fee American Express has announced a slate of four new cards 

10th grade is critical in getting money for college The fall term of 10th grade is a key time to make changes that can put a family in the optimal position to get financial aid. 

Elsewhere on MarketWatch Millennials: Communism sounds pretty chill This survery claims one in two U.S. millennials would rather live in a socialist or communist country than a capitalist democracy. 

House Republicans, White House reportedly compromise on reducing 401(k) cap A draft bill will reduce the cap on 401(k) contributions but not to $2,400 as House Republicans had wanted, ABC News reports. 

Obamacare is looking more like (expensive) Medicaid, thanks to Republicans Taxpayers lose, as sky-high premiums mean that only those qualifying for subsidies are likely to purchase insurance on the Affordable Care Act exchanges. 

Garrett faces skeptical Senate in bid to run agency he voted to abolish Former Congressman Scott Garrett on Wednesday faced a skeptical audience at his nomination hearing to run the Export Import Bank, as he pledged not to sabotage an agency he had voted to abolish. 

Two fatal U.S. Navy collisions were avoidable, reports conclude Two U.S. Navy collisions that killed a total of 17 sailors this year were avoidable, a pair of reports released Wednesday said. 

Tax bill may rely on a budget gimmick that undermines your 401(k) The Republican tax cut plan may rely on a budget gimmick that would undermine public finances as well as retirement security for millions of Americans. 
Haven’t subscribed yet to MarketWatch’s daily personal finance newsletter? Sign up here .