How to Play Facebook Earnings By Timothy Collins | Nov 1, 2017 | 12:17 PM EDT 
Facebook (FB) doesn't have the same doubts to address this afternoon as Qualcomm (QCOM) . That doesn't mean investors won't be ready to listen to what the company has to offer, but chances are they will get the benefit of the doubt when it comes to subjective statements. 
There will be several key takeaways from tonight's earnings, along with glimpses of where the social media behemoth can spur sales growth of 40%+ for the remainder of this year and 30%+ for next -- all while maintaining profit margins of 40% or more....606   COMPARE ALL SERVICES >> Action Alerts PLUS 
Portfolio Manager Jim Cramer and the AAP Team reveal their investment tactics while giving advanced notice before every trade. Product Features: Intraday trade alerts from Cramer Weekly roundups Trifecta Stocks 
Trifecta Stocks analyzes over 4,000 equities weekly to find the elite 1% of stocks that pass rigorous quantitative, fundamental and technical tests. Product Features: Recommendations for over 4,300 stocks Unlimited research reports on your favorite stocks Stocks Under $10 
The SU10 Team uncovers low dollar stocks with serious upside potential that are flying under Wall Street's radar. Product Features: 
Access the tool that dominates the Russell 2000 & the S&P 500. Product Features: Buy, hold, or sell recommendations for over 4,300 stocks Unlimited research reports on your favorite stocks A custom stock screener Upgrade/downgrade alerts Top Stocks 
With Top Stocks, Helene Meisler uses short and long-term indicators to pinpoint imminent breakouts in stocks. Product Features: Daily trading ideas and technical analysis Daily market commentary and analysis Daily Swing Trade 
Master swing trader Alan Farley uses his sophisticated software screens to review thousands of stocks each day for you, to find just the handful that meet his demanding criteria. Product Features: Daily commentry and coaching on swing trading Technical charts and analysis Except as otherwise indicated, quotes are delayed. Quotes delayed at least 20 minutes for all exchanges. Market Data provided by Interactive Data . Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar . Earnings and ratings provided by Zacks. Mutual fund data provided by Valueline. ETF data provided by Lipper. Powered and implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions. TheStreet Ratings updates stock ratings daily. However, if no rating change occurs, the data on this page does not update. The data does update after 90 days if no rating change occurs within that time period. IDC calculates the Market Cap for the basic symbol to include common shares only. Year-to-date mutual fund returns are calculated on a monthly basis by Value Line and posted mid-month.