How to protect your Facebook account from a cyber attack “This exploitative trend only looks set to become more and more prevalent” Share Facebook has emerged as the most targeted social-media channel in the second half of 2017 Share Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
With over two billion people now using Facebook every month, it was inevitable exploitation would follow across this social-media platform. 
Facebook has emerged as the social-media channel most targeted by cyber attacks in the second half of 2017, according to ComputerWeekly.com. 
One of the main threats is Faceliker – a trojan usually embedded or injected into compromised or malicious websites, with the aim of manipulating Facebook users’ accounts. 
Once the user clicks on this, Faceliker infects their browser and hijacks their account likes. Clicks and likes are then redirected to support and promote specific content, which could be damaging or harmful to the Facebook user. 
The trojan manipulates them, without their knowledge or consent, making the user complicit in fraudulent schemes. Read More Could these be the most embarrassing things ever done for work? 
Stephen Clarke, who specialises in intellectual property, criminal matters and software anti-piracy, at Bristol-based legal firm CJCH Solicitors, said: “This exploitative trend only looks set to become more and more prevalent over the coming years. 
“What’s most concerning is that users are unconsciously complicit and used to further malicious, or potentially harmful activities, across social-media channels. 
“Any detrimental or harmful use of a Facebook account can be challenged under the Computer Misuse Act." 
Mr Clarke’s advice is to be cautious when clicking on websites that feature pop ups; claim you have won a prize; ask you to download software; request card details to access vouchers; or inform you that computer is already infected. 
“Always be cautious of accessing a potentially malicious website,” he added. Like us on Facebook