What names are allowed on Facebook? +12543261656 call now Facebook is a community where everyone uses the name they go by in everyday life. This makes it so that you always know who you're connecting with and helps keep our community safe. Your name can't include: Symbols, numbers, unusual capitalization, repeating characters or punctuation Characters from multiple languages Titles of any kind (example: professional, religious) Words or phrases in place of a name Offensive or suggestive words of any kind If your name follows our standards and you're still having trouble changing it, find out why . Other things to keep in mind: The name on your profile should be the name that your friends call you in everyday life. This name should also appear on an ID or document from our ID list . Nicknames can be used as a first or middle name if they're a variation of your authentic name (like Bob instead of Robert). You can also list another name on your account (example: maiden name, nickname, professional name). Profiles are for individual use only. You can create a Page for a business, organization or idea. Pretending to be anything or anyone isn't allowed. What names are allowed on Facebook? +12543261656 call now Facebook is a community where everyone uses the name they go by in everyday life. This makes it so that you always know who you're connecting with and helps keep our community safe. Your name can't include: Symbols, numbers, unusual capitalization, repeating characters or punctuation Characters from multiple languages Titles of any kind (example: professional, religious) Words or phrases in place of a name Offensive or suggestive words of any kind If your name follows our standards and you're still having trouble changing it, find out why . Other things to keep in mind: The name on your profile should be the name that your friends call you in everyday life. This name should also appear on an ID or document from our ID list . Nicknames can be used as a first or middle name if they're a variation of your authentic name (like Bob instead of Robert). You can also list another name on your account (example: maiden name, nickname, professional name). Profiles are for individual use only. You can create a Page for a business, organization or idea. Pretending to be anything or anyone isn't allowed. What names are allowed on Facebook? +12543261656 call now Facebook is a community where everyone uses the name they go by in everyday life. This makes it so that you always know who you're connecting with and helps keep our community safe. Your name can't include: Symbols, numbers, unusual capitalization, repeating characters or punctuation Characters from multiple languages Titles of any kind (example: professional, religious) Words or phrases in place of a name Offensive or suggestive words of any kind If your name follows our standards and you're still having trouble changing it, find out why . Other things to keep in mind: The name on your profile should be the name that your friends call you in everyday life. This name should also appear on an ID or document from our ID list . Nicknames can be used as a first or middle name if they're a variation of your authentic name (like Bob instead of Robert). You can also list another name on your account (example: maiden name, nickname, professional name). Profiles are for individual use only. You can create a Page for a business, organization or idea. Pretending to be anything or anyone isn't allowed.