How To Change your Login Password for facebook | Change FB account Sign in Password By Admin01 | October 31, 2017 0 Comment 
How To Change your Login Password for facebook | Change FB account Sign in Password – Facebook password Recovery Finder: The rate at which other users are hacking into other peoples account is quite alarming. You may wish to change your Facebook account password in order… this small piece will guide you through. We’ll also show you how to set password from the desktop and mobile versions of the Facebook website as well as the Apple iOS and Android apps. Mobile Website From the mobile version of Facebook, perform these steps: Login to your Facebook account. Select the Menu button located at the upper-right corner. Scroll down and select “Account settings“. Choose “General“. Select “Password“. Type your current password, then type your new password in the “New” and “Re-type New” fields. Select the “Change Password” button when you’re ready. iOS App From the Facebook for iPhone or iPad app, perform these steps: Tap the “More” button located at the lower-right part of the screen. Select “Settings“. Select “General“. Select ” Password“. Type your current password, then type your new password in the “New” and “Re-type New” fields. Select the “Change Password” button when you’re ready. Android App From the Facebook for Android app, perform these steps: Open the Facebook app. button located at the upper-right corner. Select “Account settings“. Choose “General“. Select “Password“. Type your current password, then type your new password in the “New” and “Re-type New” fields. Select the “Change Password” button when you’re ready. Desktop Website From the desktop version of Facebook, perform these steps: Login to your Facebook account . Select the arrow next to the lock located at the upper-right corner and select “Settings“. Select the “Edit” link next to the “Password” section. Type your current password, then type your new password in the “New” and “Re-type New” fields. Select Save Changes. Your Facebook password is now changed successfully. 
Please share this article!!! Category: Uncategorized About Admin01 
Quote I'm Pondering on: We Experience our Moments of Purest Joy at Precisely those Moments when we are Causing it in Others. Connect with me on Twitter \ Facebook \ G+ View all posts by Admin01 → Post navigation