Ref who quit after students' anthem protest is a 'coward': coach 
The officials who refused to work a New Jersey high school football game over the weekend after players kneeled for the national anthem have a history of making racist comments on social media, though one denies he was the author of the posts. 
New Jersey native Ernie Lunardelli, who walked off the field with son Anthony after the anthem was played at Monroe High School on Saturday, told NJ Advanced Media Sunday night his Facebook account was hacked after the newspaper unearthed insensitive remarks he wrote in reference to the former President Obama and Eli Manning. 
“Yea! Thanks for f–king up the country!! Back to the zoo!!” the elder Lunardelli’s account commented on a photo of Obama and wife Michelle uploaded on Jan. 21. 
The day before, on President Trump’s inauguration day, Lunardelli again wrote, “Back to the zoo!!!” on a post about the Obamas, as captured in screenshots on NJ.com. 
Anthony Lunardelli, on the night the Giants beat the Patriots in the 2012 Super Bowl, referred to Eli Manning’s success as “jew luck” for someone he believed “sure as s–t didn’t deserve” the MVP award, he wrote in a Facebook comment. see also Two NJ high school refs walk off after players kneel for anthem Two New Jersey high school football officials – Ernie Lunardelli... While Anthony did not respond to a request for comment, his father attempted to deny responsibility for the messages, including by referencing his black “best friend.”
“I was hacked,” Ernie Lunardelli said. “I’m not a racist. My best friend is black. He lives in the condo I own in North Brunswick. I don’t know, somebody put my picture on there, I have no idea. I don’t know where this has come from. I don’t know what to tell you. I never did anything.” 
The Lunardellis — 54-year-old Ernie and 27-year-old Anthony — stood for the anthem Saturday, but promptly left the field after four players from Monroe who have been kneeling for most of the season in protest of social and racial injustice did so before their game against Colts Neck High. Ernie Lunardelli reportedly informed the officials assigner for the Greater Middlesex Conference he would walk off the field if he witnessed a protest. 
“I’m not in favor of anyone disrespecting our country, our flag, the armed forces,” Ernie said Saturday. “What they’re protesting has nothing to do with the national anthem and I’m against it, so I decided to protest them kneeling and that’s what I did.” 
Ernie also denied yelling at the Monroe kneelers and having to be forcibly led from the field, as Colts Neck coach Darian Barnes recounted after the game. 
Anthony Lunardelli played on the Monroe football team before graduating in 2008, Ernie said. 
Ernie called the supposed racist comments “just somebody trying to stir up something.” 
“My Facebook was hacked,” he told NJ.com. “It was a real long time ago. I’m standing by what I did and it has nothing to do with race or anything else.” Share this: