Part of the email NESA sent to the student. Photo: Supplied 
A teacher also appears to have brought the incident to NESA's attention on social media shortly after the exam finished, with a tweet saying "hey NESA - FYI there's a student live-streaming their IPT exam right now on Facebook". 
A spokesman for NESA said: "It would be inappropriate to comment on any case currently before the Examination Rules Committee." 
The spokesman said the exam has not been impacted by the incident and no students will be required to resit it. 
The livestream has been deleted from Facebook. 
The principal at the student's school said that the school was contacted by NESA about the incident on Friday. 
"[The] school is very disappointed [about] the possibility that one of our students might have been involved in this incident," the principal said. 
The student has been contacted for comment. 
Using an electronic device during exams can result in the student getting zero marks for the exam or losing their HSC, according to NESA rules and procedures. 
All HSC exams are supervised by staff employed and trained by NESA, and there are 7500 supervisors working across NSW this year. 
Current teachers, volunteers, tutoring students or anyone with a child or near relative sitting the HSC cannot supervise exams at their own or their relative's school. 
The Information Processes and Technology exam was held on October 24 at 1.55pm across the state. About 2748 students are enrolled in the course. 
The use of technology during HSC exams is a growing concern for NESA, with mobile phones, smart watches and tablets at the top of its list of items banned from exam rooms . 
Similar incidents of students taking photos or video of exam papers and posting them on social media from inside the exam room occurred during last year's exams, according to NESA. 
There were 14 serious breaches of exam rules, such as using an electronic device or notes during an exam last year. 
In total, more than 600 students across the state were found to have cheated during an exam or plagiarised an assessment in 2016, NESA reported. 
There are 117 written HSC exams being held across NSW in October and November this year, and about 78,000 students are enrolled in at least one HSC course. Advertisement