Huge Facebook appeal for missing teenager Gaia Pope as more than 3,100 join group and hundreds form search parties Thousands join Facebook search page as voluntary search parties head out across Dorset Share Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
Hundreds of people have joined the search for missing teenager Gaia Pope from Dorset. 
The 19-year-old lives in Langton Matravers , but was last seen at an address in Swanage where she had been staying at around 3.45pm yesterday, Tuesday 7 November. 
Somerset Live reported earlier today that her family are "frantic with worry". 
Gaia suffers from severe epilepsy and is prone to seizures. It's not know whether she has her medication with her. Dorset Police say they are very concerned for her welfare and a number of searches were carried out in the area on Tuesday and continued throughout yesterday, with the assistance of the coastguard and NPAS helicopter. 
A Facebook page finding Gaia has been launched and in just a couple of days membership has swollen to more than 3,100 - with hundreds of concerned people joining every hour. 
Throughout Thursday evening hundreds of people were out looking for Gaia in locations around Dorset, handing out fliers and updating the page. 
Gaia's sisters, family and friends have been helping to organise searches, co-ordinated on the page, and others have taken it upon themselves to organise searches - from Swanage to Poole, and Wareham to Wimborne and beyond. A huge voluntary search for Gaia Pole co-ordinated by Facebook is ongoing 
One poster commented: "I am coordinating the local scouts searching around Wareham. 
"We have a lot of areas to cover including Stoborough, Sandford and North Wareham. 
"If anyone is in the area and would like to help I am based in the Quay car park and have plenty of areas available." Messages are being posted every few minutes on the find Gaia Facebook page There are scores of other similar posts popping up every few minutes and numerous possible sightings though nothing has been confirmed. 
As Somerset Live reported, her worried family has made a heartfelt appeal to Gaia to make contact with them or Dorset Police. 
“We are all frantic with worry Gaia and are desperate to know you are OK. You are not in any trouble and we just want to know you are somewhere safe. Please get in touch with someone to let us know where you are so we can help you.” A gofundme page has been set up 
The family and friends have also set up a gofundme page which has set a target of £2,000 to help fund the voluntary operation and produce fliers and other publicity. 
It's aready raised over £700. 
A message on the page says: "Our daughter, sister and friend, Gaia Pope, has gone missing. She is only 19 years old, has been missing for nearly 48 hours and suffers from increasingly severe epilepsy. 
"Alongside a full police search we have got a massive voluntary operation to find her and bring her home safe. "We really desperately need money to be able to do anything we can to find Gaia, including printing posters, flyers and paying for Facebook adverts. Please give whatever you can to help us and to bring Gaia home safe." Read More Fresh appeal by Police 
Dorset Police have issued a fresh appeal for help in finding her. 
She was said to be wearing a red checked shirt with white buttons, grey and white woven leggings and white trainers.Inspector Andy Edwards, of Dorset Police, said: “We are doing everything possible to try and locate Gaia and our extensive search efforts are continuing.“Our thoughts are with her family at what must be a very difficult time and we are doing everything we possibly can to support them.“I would urge any members of the public who have information as to her where Gaia could be, or who see a woman matching the description given, to contact police immediately. Read More Frome schoolboy's winning Christmas stamp design goes on sale today 
"We would also urge anyone who may have dashcam footage from their vehicles covering major routes in Swanage over the last 48 hours to review it to see if there are any sightings of someone matching Gaia’s description. “Finally, I would appeal to Gaia directly, if she sees this appeal, to contact us or your family as we all want to ensure that you are safe and well.”Gaia's family has also issued a statement urging her to contact them or police.They said: “We are all frantic with worry Gaia and are desperate to know you are ok. You are not in any trouble and we just want to know you are somewhere safe. Please get in touch with someone to let us know where you are so we can help you.”Anyone with information or knowledge as to Gaia's whereabouts is asked to contact Dorset Police at www.dorset.police.uk , via email 101@dorset.pnn.police.uk or by calling 101, quoting incident number 9:179. Alternatively contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 or via www.crimestoppers-uk.org. https://goo.gl/pqiazT Like us on Facebook