A + A - The accused, Abhishek Goud 
The cyber cell cell of Rachakonda Police on Saturday arrested ruling Telangana Rastra Samiti corporator's son. The accused, identified as Abhishek Goud, has been booked for harassing a woman via Facebook by insisting cyber sex and uploading morphed photos of her on the social media and porn websites. 
Abhishek is the son of Malkajgiri corporator N Jagadeeshwar Goud, and was arrested in September aswell for similar charges by CCS Police of Hyderabad. 
According to police, the 25-year-old victim received a friend request from a fake female profile, named "Vara Darling". Soon she started receiving lewd messages asking her for cyber sex. She also received videos of explicit content on her Facebook Messenger. 
When the victim tried to reprimand the sender, she received a morphed photograph of a nude girl with her face on it. 
Based on her complaint a case U/s 292, 201, 354 D, 507 IPC and Section 66 (C), 66 (E), 67, 67 (A) IT Act has been registered and the cyber crime team of Rachakonda commissioner zone has taken up the investigation. 
During the investigation on the basis of technical evidence, the user of facebook ID "Vara Darling", has been identified as 20-year-old Abhishek Goud, who was earlier arrested and was out on bail. 
The investigation revealed that, Goud is also wanted in a similar case registered at the cyber cell two weeks ago. 
Meanwhile, after it is established that the corporator's son is a habitual offender, Rachakonda police is planning a strict action against him. 
"We have seen his crime details from Hyderabad Police and are gathering more information about his activities. We will be booking him under Preventive Detention (PD) Act, after which the accused can't walk out from Jail for at least 12 months", said Mahesh Bhagwat CP, Rachakonda. For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in . ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.