Last week I bought a teeth-whitening kit. I was walking down a supermarket aisle, saw it by accident and picked it up. I've been bleaching my teeth every day since. Every morning I growl at myself in the mirror and examine my enamel. "Still not perfect," I think. Yellow. Streaky. I Googled it: "Streaky teeth after teeth whitening." There were hundreds of bad testimonials. But I keep using it.
Then there is the clay face mask. Last week I went to the pharmacy in my lunch break and I bought it. I've incorporated it into my bi-daily routine. Bleach teeth. Exfoliate. Clay mask. Look up at my reflection expectantly. Examine my cheeks. Bare my teeth. Sigh. Repeat.
SHARE Share on Facebook SHARE Share on Twitter TWEET Link Ads for teeth-whitening kits are all over my Facebook.   It wasn't until the other day when I heard about another massive privacy breach on the news that I started thinking about my recent beauty purchases. Seemingly unrelated, one might think. But let me explain.
Privacy comes up a bit in the media, and governments like talking about it. Countries all over the world have data protection legislation. Privacy and personal data have some degree of public profile. Edward Snowden, hello. And I saw at least two people on my feed recently post about allegations that Facebook is listening to our conversations and snooping even more into our browsing.
But aside from the media, and governments, and Snowden, and my two Facebook friends and me, no one really seems to actually care. There's no emotional connection to the concept. And I find it infuriating. Partly because I am far less proactive than I should be about it (because, let's face it, I want convenience as much as the next person) and I'm annoyed with myself about it, and partly because everyone seems to care even less than me about privacy.
But we should care. Back to the beauty purchases.
Advertisement I'd never thought about buying a teeth-whitening kit until my Facebook got pummelled with an outrageous overpopulation of teeth-whitening ads. There's the "natural" charcoal one. Or the other one, obviously the best, because they can afford Kylie Jenner without a bra to be their sponsor.
I've also been getting hit with the Australian pink clay face mask ads. Until I started writing this, I didn't even realise that I bought a clay mask the other day because of those ads.
You will now receive updates from Breaking News Alert Breaking News Alert Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox.
By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy . 
I would put money on the fact that lots of Melbourne gals around 27, who look at anything beauty related on Facebook, would be getting these ads too, buying these products, and maybe not even realising why.
These targeted Facebook ads have not only encouraged me to buy beauty products I have never bought before. They have indirectly changed my life.
My insecurities about my skin and my teeth have increased tenfold. And my rational decision-making ability has been numbed – even though I've read those shocking reviews about the teeth-whitening kit, I keep using it, because somehow I still believe that my teeth really will get that white.
As far as I know, the only things Facebook knows about me is my age, sex, location and what I do on Facebook. And they've still targeted me this well.
Imagine if they knew more about me. What I search online. What I do with my time. Imagine if they could listen into my verbal conversations. Could it get to the point that they are influencing me not only to buy beauty products, but to change my life in other, bigger ways? Change who I spend time with, where I work, what I do, who I am?
In little ways, I have started to behave in the way I am told to by Facebook ads. The more of my data they have, the more targeted their ads will be, and the more susceptible I will be to their control. We need to remember now more than ever that our privacy matters, because our free will matters. Please, don't let your free will be eroded without a second thought (like my tooth enamel).
Claire Thurstans is a Fairfax Media columnist. 
More Articles Boy, 8, fights for life after being trapped in hot car Just be more real: Backlash against social media Appalled shoppers take aim at 'raunchy' lingerie store advertising 0 comments Log in to comment New User? Sign up 
You are logged in as unknown Logout 
300 words
Close comment form Write your comment here Screen name (required) Location (optional) I understand that submission of this content is covered by the Conditions of Use by which I am bound and Commenting Guidelines are available for my reference. 
Close Thank you Your comment has been submitted for approval. Please note that comments are moderated and are generally published if they are on-topic and not abusive. Sort comments by Oldest Newest