I'm A Celebrity reject Jack Maynard DELETES Facebook page after shock departure His next few moves could be crucial for his career as a social media sensation
 Share Comments By Jessica Gibb Senior Celebrity Reporter Frances Kindon 16:25, 22 NOV 2017 Updated 18:02, 22 NOV 2017 Celebs Comments Jack Maynard has deleted his Facebook page the day after his shock exit from I'm A Celebrity.
The YouTube sensation had built up 22,693 followers on his public page before removing himself from the site.
He is currently still active on YouTube, Instagram and Twitter.
He’s got more than 1.2million followers on YouTube, 781k on Instagram and 669k on Twitter, and is believed to rake in more than £66,000 a year from advertising on his YouTube videos alone.
But last night the vlogger left the show and will face claims made by a female fan.
(Image: Facebook) (Image: Facebook) Now he could reportedly lose his £35,000 fee for the show thanks to a unwritten rule which states that contestants must forfeit part of their payment if they leave before the 72-hour mark.
Read More I'm a Celebrity viewers threaten to boycott show and call ITV 'pathetic' after Jack Maynard leaves jungle Jack Maynard has been kicked off I'm A Celeb (Image: PA) A spokesperson for ITV declined to comment when approached by Mirror Online, however it happened to TOWIE star Gemma Collins who received just £4,800 of her full fee, which was rumoured to be close to £100,000.
Then there’s the advertising revenue from his popular YouTube videos.
Since joining the site in January 2015, he’s accumulated 102million views, and between 40 and 60 per cent of those are believed to be monetised, earning him up to £3.70 per 1,000 views.
Read More Who will replace Jack Maynard on I'm A Celeb? The YouTube star has created a vacancy after being booted off the show after just two days The star makes his money as a YouTube vlogger (Image: REX/Shutterstock) He is believed to make more than £66,000 a year And crisis and brand publicity specialist Mark Borkowski believes those earnings will suffer over the coming months if advertisers pull out.
“I think he will take a hit,” he told Mirror Online, predicting Maynard will be flung into a "short-term financial crisis.”
However, Mr Borkowski says that the star’s direct link to his fan base could actually be the key to his survival... as long as he makes the right decisions.
“Where there’s a downturn, it’s how you deal with it, and how you address the accusations,” he continued.
“With Youtube you have the power of your own fate. Previously celebrities were beholden to the papers to persuade public that they are good. But with your own channel, you can turbo charge that message.
“And if you get lots and lots of fans who believe in you, they will fight the media.
“People with great teams and sensible advice can weather the storm. If he can maintain his numbers and address the mater correctly then the advertisers will return."
Can Jack bounce back? (Image: WENN) Mirror Online has contacted YouTube regarding its position on the matter.
Addressing his departure, an ITV spokesman said: “Due to circumstances outside camp, Jack has had to withdraw from the show.”
Before entering the jungle, Maynard, 22, was revealed to have used the N-word on his official Twitter account and branded other users “retarded” and “f***ots”.
Some of the comments came in tweets dating back six years, which he has since deleted. In December 2012, he replied to tweets using the phrase “retarded f***ot”.
And a statement from Jack’s agent said: “In the last few days Jack has been the subject of a succession of media stories which he has been unable to respond to.
“Since it is only fair that everyone should be aware of any allegations made against them and should also have the right to defend themselves, it was agreed it would be better to bring him out.
Read More Jack Maynard's shock I'm A Celeb exit Who is Jack Maynard? How much does Jack Maynard earn? Jack Maynard breaks silence Jack Maynard's dirty reputation “Jack agrees with this decision which was made by his representatives and ITV, and thanks everyone who has supported him in the show this far.”
 MirrorCeleb Follow @mirrorceleb Comments Show more comments More On YouTube ITV Jack Maynard Reality shows