If You Buy The Conspiracy Theory Facebook Is Listening To Your Conversations, Here's How To Stop It 
The social network denies using your phone's microphone to target you with ads. But just in case... Most Popular Text Have you ever had a conversation about something and promptly been served up an advert on Facebook for that very thing? We're all used to seeing promo material for stuff we've searched for on Google, or posted about on our Facebook wall, but what about that time you discussed, for example, going to see Blade Runner 2049 with a co-worker IRL and suddenly FB is peddling tickets on your feed? Related Story Can Facebook Save Itself From Hate Speech? Advertisement - Continue Reading Below The conspiracy theory goes that Facebook (and Instagram, who are owned by the same company) is recording your conversations through your phone's microphone and using the conversations to target adverts. There are endless examples people have shared of coincidences which - if true - are just a little too spooky. I was talking to my friend about how I need a phone holder in the bathroom bcause our counter is small and I got this ad an hour later pic.twitter.com/0GB5NH2kkc 
— megan (@MorganCrockett) October 26, 2017 Most Popular A coworker got an ad saying "so you popped the question!" minutes after he proposed, before he told anyone it had happened 
— Tori Hoover (@torihoover) October 27, 2017 Think Facebook isn’t listening? Think again. I only had an in-person conversation about buying a bow tie and now this #facebookislistening pic.twitter.com/DmsTLDpY75 
— Ryan Northcott (@ryannorthcott) October 29, 2017 The social network vehemently denied the accusations with their VP of ads saying the claims were "Just not true." I run ads product at Facebook. We don't - and have never - used your microphone for ads. Just not true. 
— Rob Goldman (@robjective) October 26, 2017 I'll just leave this here... https://t.co/qJkaXzIijp 
— Adam Isserlis (@AdamIss) October 26, 2017 Even still, to be sure, here's how you can turn off your microphone. Just in case. In iOS, go to Settings -> Privacy - > Microphone and unselect Facebook and Instagram. On Android, go to Settings -> Personal -> Privacy and Safety -> App permissions -> Microphone and unselect Facebook and Instagram.