Engage with us Problem 1: iPhone 6S overheating when Facebook app is used 
My iPhone 6S 16GB heats a lot especially when i open Facebook. I am running iOS 11.0.3. have re installed the app many times but no change. Battery drains. I have also installed- flashed and reset to factory setting default but no help. CPU just heats up, freezes or hangs. However, other apps are ok until i open Facebook. then my CPU heats real fast and battery drains faster. Kindly advice. — Jeff Kiyingi 
Solution: Hi Jeff. First you want to confirm if the symptoms only happen with Facebook app. You can do that by removing the app entirely from the system and observing the phone for as long as you can. If your iPhone works just fine, then for some reason, the current Facebook app you got may be buggy. 
To get to the bottom of the issue, you should let the developer know of this particular problem. Follow this link that will guide you on how to report a Facebook problem. Problem 2: iPhone 6S screen keeps flickering after replacement 
I dropped my iPhone 6S, damaging the screen and digitizer. I bought a replacement which included everything except home button. After I transferred home button and put phone back together, everything including Touch ID and touch screen works but the screen flickers nonstop. I’m wondering if I received a bad replacement and if I ordered a new replacement from a reputable company if this will fix the problem. — Terra 
Solution: The only way we can say for sure is if we can check the phone and the problematic display in question. Since you yourself attempted a repair by adding the Home button yourself, it’s up to you to see if it’s just a miss in the repair, or if you have a bad replacement or component. Take the phone apart and reconnect everything again, making sure that the flex cables, particularly the ones for the display are properly connected. Keep in mind that flex cables are sensitive and can be damaged fairly easily if you’re not careful with them. 
If the screen still flickers after making sure everything connected properly, consider replacing the possible parts where failures can occur. In case of a flickering issue, it’s usually a cable problem but it can also be due to a bad or incompatible monitor. Be sure that you get replacement parts from reputable companies. We know how easy it is to get parts online but some of them may be from unreliable sellers. Problem 3: iPhone 6 can’t send outgoing emails 
I am unable to send emails from my iPhone. The settings are correct but Mail won’t retain the password information for the outgoing server so, every time I try to send an email, I get a ‘Cannot Send Mail’ message ‘No password provided’. However, if I send an email to myself, it gets through OK. The URL of my email address is different from the URL of my ISP and, hence, the URL of the outgoing mail server. Apple were unable to crack this! Hope you can. — James 
Solution: Hi James. If you can’t send an email via Mail app, the most likely issue is a misconfiguration in the SMTP settings. And given the error message you’re getting, the most likely cause is incorrect password under the Primary server. To check, do the following: Open Settings app. On the right, select the email account having the problem. Tap SMTP to access SMTP settings. Tap SMTP server . Make sure to enter the necessary details in every field such as Host Name, User Name, Password, etc. You may need to contact your email service provider for these information. Hit Done button once finished. Problem 4: iPhone 6 can’t uninstall Paypal app 
Hello, 5)3 PayPal app is in the waiting mode. I’ve rebooted, signed off & back with ITunes. Rebooted again. Tried to delete the app As stated under general & cellular – however the PayPal app is not listed in that area. Its not even listed under the area where all the apps are. I’ve tried to delete app with the “x” and get the message are you sure —it will not delete. I don’t use a computer with ITunes. Thanks for your help. — Mhoward5464 
Solution: Hi Mhoward5464. There are only three ways to remove an app from an iPhone. The first one is by tapping and holding the app you wish to uninstall until the icons starts to wiggle. Once the “x” appears on the app, you can tap it to proceed with the removal. The second way is by doing under Settings > General > iPhone Storage. Once a list of the apps appear, simply tap an on app’s name, then tap Delete App option. The third option involves the use of iTunes, which we won’t discuss since you don’t use iTunes anyway. 
So, if the first two methods won’t work at all, there are two explanations for that — either the Paypal app is preinstalled, or there’s a software glitch preventing your from removing it. Preinstalled apps are the ones that came with the phone when you unbox and set it up for the first time. They’re usually provided by the carrier or by Apple. If you’re positive that Paypal was not part of the preinstalled apps, do a full restore to remove any bug blocking you from removing it. To do that, follow these steps: Create a backup of your files. You can do that in a number of ways but the fastest and most effective way is by using iTunes in your PC or Mac. If you don’t want to create a backup at all, you can simply erase everything on the phone by following the steps in this link . Connect your iPhone to your computer with the cable that came with your phone. We assume you remember your phone’s passcode so simply enter it when you’re prompted for it. Select your iPhone once iTunes asks you for the specific device. Once you’re in the Summary panel or screen, select the option that will restore your device (Restore). Confirm by clicking on Restore button. Wait for a few moments while iTunes restores your device to its factory settings. It may also take some time if iTunes will need to install an updated operating system version. After this factory reset, all software settings should be restored to their defaults. 
Engage with us 
If you happen to have a problem with your own iPhone, let us know about it and we will do our best to post them and their solutions in our upcoming articles. You can use this link to contact us for assistance. We can’t guarantee an answer to every question but rest assured that we will exhaust everything on our end to help you. 
Be as detailed as possible when describing your problem to help us diagnose your issue easily. If you can include error messages, popups, attempted troubleshooting steps, and circumstances leading to the problem, that would be very helpful.   Name * Email *