Is it fair to be sacked for a post on your personal Facebook page? Show caption 
  
After reports in the media of people losing their jobs for posts on their personal Facebook page, the Worcester News' Grace Walton asked residents whether they think its fair for employees to be sacked for their behaviour on social media. 
In the news this week there were reports on Rachel Burns, who was dismissed from her management job at a residential home for elderly and vulnerable adults because she posted a photo and video on her personal Facebook account which identified one of the residents. 
When she shared special moments from a music evening at the home, she had no idea that she was breaching data protection rules and her actions would end her 21-year career in care. 
Also in the news was a woman who posted an unpleasant message about young Prince George on her personal Facebook page, and consequently lost her job. 
With these cases in mind, we asked Worcestershire residents if they think it is fair to sack someone over what they post on their personal social media accounts. Here's what they had to say. 
Gillian McAllister, 60, from Worcester, said that discussing work matters on your personal social media page should not be tolerated by employers. 
“It is fair dismissal. You can cause lots of trouble. People speak to you and tell you lots of things in confidence and things should stay at work. It is a confidentiality thing between a customer and the staff. Things should stay at work.” 
David Preece. 22, from Barnard's Green, Malvern, said that criticising colleagues or clients on social media is unacceptable. 
“There’s a time and a place for that stuff, I think, especially if you have got your boss on Facebook, or any other people on there that can see you blatantly slagging clients off behind their back. It is not good, it can damage your relationship with your manager and deteriorate." 
Sophie McCabe. 24, from Arboretum in Worcester, said there's a risk of ruining your reputation in the workplace through social posts. 
“Certain posts can reflect badly. Even though work and social lives are separate, they do interlink. Trust comes into it as well as integrity and honesty. Portraying one image at work but then being completely different outside of work, and it being seen by colleagues, can cause issues.” 
Faheem Uddin. 20, from Arboretum in Worcester, said that business have a duty to protect their image and posts by employees that tarnish the brand would understandably be punished. 
“From the company’s side, I understand where they are coming from. As their main objective is to protect their brand, protect the institution from negativity that can reflect their business. 
"From the personal point of view, it is all about Freedom of Speech. There should always be a good relationship between the employee and the company – it would show lack of communication if something negative was posted. It creates a risk of getting fired and you should support the business you work for.”