Facebook needs more human eyeballs 
What’s really needed, though, is for Internet platforms to take on greater responsibility for chasing down false and misleading material before it spreads. Leaving that burden to individual Internet users is a cop-out. 
The recriminations over Russian election interference are only one of many potential flash points between government and the big tech firms. In June, European Union regulators imposed a $2.8 billion fine on Google, the world’s dominant search engine, for steering users to Google-affiliated shopping sites. The growing dominance of Google and Facebook in online advertising is attracting attention from antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Even so, new economic and technological realities have a way of creeping up on people, and lawmakers are usually slow to respond. Only after a haggard, sweaty Richard Nixon struggled through a presidential debate against a dashing John F. Kennedy in 1960 did politicians appreciate how television could swing an election. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
Facebook’s general counsel, Colin Stretch, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee on Oct. 31. Advertisement 
In public policy, there’s an inevitable bias toward doing nothing: In the early days of radio, Congress dithered over how much power the federal government should assert control over the airwaves. Without the breakup of big, stifling monopolies — Standard Oil in 1911 , AT&T in 1982 — the modern oil and telecom industries might never have emerged, but at the time lots of people questioned the need for federal action. 
Likewise, even as Facebook and Google grew into multibillion-dollar corporations with complex business operations and massive global influence, lawmakers continue to treat them as scrappy startups that could be plunged into bankruptcy if Washington so much as glances in their direction. 
Even though the press is protected by name in the Constitution , traditional news outlets are still operate under certain legal constraints. Newspapers and broadcast stations alike are liable for the content of news stories and advertisements that they circulate. Election laws require them to identify the people who pay for campaign ads. 
Facebook’s defenders say social networks are more like a phone company, which bears no responsibility if customers use its transmission lines to evade taxes or plot a murder. But analogies fail if Facebook is something truly new — a venue that allows the mass transmission of information but declines to vouch for the veracity of anything it publishes. Drew Angerer/Getty Images 
With examples of Russian-created Facebook pages behind him, Sen. Patrick Leahy questions witnesses during a Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism hearing to address “Extremist Content and Russian Disinformation Online” on Oct. 31. 
Unfortunately, the problem won’t fix itself, despite what Facebook, Twitter, and Google might have you believe. Responding to a question from Arizona Senator Jeff Flake on Tuesday, the three lawyers maintained that ridding their platforms of deceptive content was in the companies’ self-interest. The subtext: There’s no need for outside pressure. Advertisement 
But that’s not really true. Social media firms’ immediate interest lies in keeping eyeballs on their sites and apps as long as possible, regardless of whether the information their users are seeing is verifiable or not. It also lies in maximizing revenues while minimizing expenditures on human employees, even if that means accepting misleading ads from shadowy foreign entities . Silicon Valley ingenuity hasn’t eliminated the tension between short-term financial gains and long-term well-being; if anything, it’s amplified the problem. 
To some degree, Facebook is responding to outside pressure. In his testimony this week, Stretch said the company plans to hire 10,000 more people for safety and security operations. In an earnings call Wednesday, though, founder Mark Zuckerberg warned that increased spending on identifying “bad content and bad actors” could put a damper on future profits . 
Not to worry; compared with last year, the company’s third-quarter profit was up 79 percent. Facebook can afford to do more — a lot more. Dante Ramos can be reached at . Follow him on Facebook: facebook.com/danteramos or on Twitter: @danteramos . Loading comments...