TV Magazine JACK THE STRIPPER I’m A Celeb star Jack Maynard axed for begging a 14-year-old to ‘see her boobs’ in private Facebook messages 
The YouTube sensation's spokeswoman has insisted that he chose to leave the show to defend himself By Hannah Hope, Senior Bizarre Reporter, in Queensland, Australia and Andy Halls, TV Editor 22nd November 2017, 9:00 pm Updated: 22nd November 2017, 10:04 pm I’M A Celebrity star Jack Maynard was booted off the show after he begged a 14-year-old fan to send him nude pictures online. 
The YouTube sensation, 22, was hauled out of the Australian jungle yesterday after just 72 hours after ITV bosses learnt of his actions. Rex Features Jack Maynard reportedly 'sent inappropriate messages to a female fan' who was 14 at the time 
They took the drastic decision after learning he bombarded the young girl, who is now a 20-year-old student, with Facebook Messages requesting the snaps. 
In the messages Jack , who says he was just 16 at the time and unaware of the girl’s age, asked to “see her boobs” and told her she would look good in “a bra shot”. 
It’s thought the girl, who The Sun is not naming, struck up a conversation on the social media site because she was a fan of the vlogger’s pop star older brother Conor, 25. 
She said last night: “He was 16, I was 14. It was something that happens to everyone. Getty - Contributor Jack Maynard's spokeswoman insists that he chose to leave the jungle to defend himself 
“I never once felt harassed. We were kids, it’s not once harmed me at all in any way. It’s in the past. It is a serious allegation to make, but you’re a kid, you make mistakes. 
“He didn’t know how old I was, and I didn’t know how old he was at the time. I cannot stress enough that the messages were harmless.” 
After he was axed from the hit show on Tuesday night, Jack’s spokeswoman insisted he wanted to leave the jungle to defend himself. 
She said: “Since it is only fair that everyone should be aware of any allegations made against them and should have the right to defend themselves, it was agreed it would be better to bring him out of the show.” Tweets of Jack using the N-word resurfaced before he went into the jungle Dan Wootton gives his views on Jack Maynard being sacked from I’m a celeb 
An ITV spokeswoman added: “Due to circumstances outside the camp Jack has had to withdraw from the show.” 
It comes a day after The Sun revealed he had made racist and homophobic slurs online. 
Jack, who has millions of young fans, casually used the N-word and called other people “faggots” in tweets when he was a teenager. 
In tweets, some dating back to June 2011, Jack mocked gay men and people with facial disfigurements. He replied to people using the phrase “retarded faggot” and referred to pals by the N-word. PA:Press Association Jack is the first Celeb to the leave the jungle after 72 hours while nine remain in Australia Twitter The Sun revealed that Jack had referred to friends as the N-word in tweets from 2011 Twitter Jack also used homophobic slurs in tweets that resurfaced from 2011 
As the ITV show launched on Sunday night, Jack admitted his words were inflammatory and insulting. His spokeswoman said: “Jack is ashamed of these tweets, many were deleted a long time ago. He would never use that language now.” 
Producers removed any trace of Jack from last night’s show, including scenes where he says goodbye to his fellow campmates. 
Despite his close friendship with popular Made In Chelsea star Georgia ‘Toff’ Toffolo, 22, there was no mention of Jack’s name in conversations aired from camp. 
Bosses set up a stealth exit operation to ensure Brighton-born Jack was smuggled out of Australia, where the show is filmed, and back to the UK. Getty - Contributor Jack and his brother Conor Maynard at the GQ Men Of The Year Awards after party 
A TV source said: “The latest allegation of sending inappropriate messages to a fan was the straw that broke the camel’s back for show bosses, days after Jack’s racist and homophobic tweets had already come to light. 
“Executive producers were forced to hold tense crisis talk about what action to take and the decision to kick Jack out from camp didn’t come lightly. MOST READ IN I'M A CELEBRITY 2017 JUNGLE BOY All the info on how and why Jack Maynard sensationally left I'm A Celebrity 2017 VERTIG...OH? I'm A Celeb fan thinks 334ft bridge stunt is fake after spotting this 'clue' wish you were here? Richard Madeley gets tanned in Australia as Judy Finnigan is glum in UK JACK GONE What caused Jack Maynard to leave I'm A Celebrity and what were his tweets about? JACK-ASS I'm A Celeb star Jack Maynard's future on show in doubt as n-word shame exposed JUNGLE JACK SACKED Jack Maynard AXED from I’m A Celebrity after his racist tweets revealed Holly Willoughby defends Jack Maynard and says she ‘doesn’t understand’ why he was sacked from I’m A Celebrity 
"There was also a feeling that the allegations were so serious he should be able to defend himself, which he obviously couldn’t from the jungle. 
“Everyone was obviously disappointed with the turn of events, but it just wasn’t right to keep Jack in the show.” 
It is unlikely that a new campmate will replace Jack at this stage as the show focuses on two late-arrivals tonight Scottish Labour MP Kezia Dugdale , 36, and Talk Radio host Iain Lee, 44.