BHUBANESWAR: A scientist of Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) in Dhanbad may land in trouble for allegedly circulating interior pictures of Jagannath Temple in Puri on social media. Camera and mobile phone are not allowed in the 12th century shrine.
Scientist Sadanand Sharma - who along with the experts of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and officials of state works department carried out an inspection inside the shrine's sanctum sanctorum - had uploaded the photos on his Facebook account in September last year. The matter came to the light on Tuesday, causing a furore in the temple town. As the incident sparked public outrage and enraged shrine servitors, a judicial commission, set up by state government last year to suggest reforms in Jagannath temple, on Tuesday sought a report within ten days from the government.
"I feel it is a breach of security. I have sought separate probe reports from law department, temple administration, Puri collector and SP. They have been asked to find out the circumstances leading to circulation of the photos in social media," the commission chief justice B P Das told TOI.
Jagannath temple's chief administrator Pradeep Jena, a senior IAS officer, confirmed that the photos were circulated by Sharma. "Since he was part of the inspection of the temple's structural stability, he had clicked the photos in his mobile and uploaded on his Facebook. He has sent a mail to me, tendering apology," Jena told media persons.
According to Section 30-A (4-C) of Jagannath Temple Act 1953, devotees cannot take camera into the shrine. When mobile phones with cameras came into the market, the state-run temple banned mobile phones into the shrine. Violation of the Act is a punishable offence and attracts imprisonment up to two months and Rs 1,000 fine.
"We will initiate legal action if the temple administration lodges complaint with us. So far, we have not received any complaint. Whenever people were caught with cameras and cell phones, the temple officials usually seized those articles, deleted the photos and slapped fine on violators," said superintendent of police (Puri) Sarthak Sarangi.
Recently, some selfies in the temple hit the social media, raising question mark on frisking system of the police at four gates of the shrine. Strangely, the temple administration never lodged any police complaint into such violation in the past. "We usually showed leniency to devotees, who were unaware of the temple rule. We only collected fine from them and let them off after erasing the photos from their cameras," a temple official said.