Activate your digital access. John Cleese on 'Monty Python,' Facebook, bad comedy, great comedy and kids these days Jeffrey Lee Puckett , Louisville Courier Journal Published 6:50 a.m. ET Nov. 7, 2017 | Updated 9:52 a.m. ET Nov. 7, 2017 CLOSE Monty Python star John Cleese said on Wednesday that the need for comedy was greater than ever, as he accepted the "Honorary Heart of Sarajevo" award at the Bosnian capital's film festival. Wochit John Cleese will host a screening of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" at the Louisville Palace. (Photo: Mills Entertainment) CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE The conversation was meant to revolve around "Monty Python and the Holy Grail," but actor John Cleese was settled onto a train headed for Manchester and there was room to roam. Politics, human evolution, British comedy history, World War II, and Cleese's return to television after nearly 40 years all found their way into a leisurely chat. There was even a "kids these days" moment about social media. But if Cleese, 78, hadn't gotten salty about some modern contrivance the disappointment would have been profound. This, after all, is the man who may have invented the exasperated side eye as Basil Fawlty in "Fawlty Towers." Cleese will host a screening of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" at the Louisville Palace later this month, and that classic film was definitely discussed. He has plenty of opinions, the most notable of which is that the film's ending is regrettable. Cleese said that "Holy Grail" remains a comedy milestone because, foremost, it's funny. Just as important is that its setting in ancient history allows viewers to see it without being distracted by dated references. You may like: Shop while you eat and drink at Varanese during 'Fall Fashion Wednesdays' "It's very lucky that the two Python films that are the best ones, that one and 'Life of Brian,' were both set in historical periods," Cleese said. "If I was trying to make a comedy show now I would simply not know what most people, young people, thought was funny because I can't begin to understand Facebook let alone all of their attachments to electronic equipment." This isn't the first time that a member of Monty Python's Flying Circus, one of history's most revolutionary comedy teams, has toured with "Holy Grail." The 1975 film, which raised Monty Python's American stature from cultish to almost famous, has gone on to be regarded as a landmark film for its willful disregard of movie-making conventions. Cleese will discuss his favorite scenes and field questions at the Louisville Palace. He loves, for example, an extended scene featuring Michael Palin as a wealthy man trying to get two doltish guards to remain at their posts. It's the perfect example, he said, of how Monty Python would use a static camera rather than edit in close-ups. "It's wonderfully funny, it's wonderfully performed, and there're no cut-ins or anything," Cleese said. "It's a little war I'm carrying out at the moment because of the way a lot of comedy is shot. There are certain TV programs like 'Big Bang Theory' which I cannot watch because of the camera work and because of the canned laughter." You may like: Matthew McConaughey makes a surprise visit to Lawrenceburg's Wild Turkey Distillery Cleese, Graham Chapman, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin arrived in 1969 with the first season of "Monty Python's Flying Circus" on London's BBC television. The sketch show expanded on England's rich history of absurdist humor by taking everything many, many steps further. All of the Pythons were particular fans of "The Goon Show," a landmark BBC radio show noted for its surrealism "We, meaning the Pythons, certainly watched 'Goon Show' with exactly the kind of devotion that people showed to Monty Python, which is why in a way I've always understood Python audiences because that's how I felt about Harry Secombe and Peter Sellers and Spike Milligan," Cleese said. "It's funny how important it becomes. Music's never been as important to me, which is extraordinary to most people. For me, comedy had that place. Really great comedies thrill me." Cleese has been a part of many such comedies. Outside of Monty Python, his "Fawlty Towers" series was voted Britain's all-time finest television comedy. He wrote and starred in "A Fish Called Wanda," and the screenplay was nominated for an Oscar. England is currently rabid for the debut of "Hold the Sunset," Cleese's return to starring in a television series for the first time since "Fawlty Towers" ended in 1979. "The trouble was that 'Fawlty Towers,' and this is an awful thing to say and maybe I shouldn't say it, but it was so good that I couldn't see as how I could follow it until about nine months ago when somebody else wrote something that was so original and so different from anything else on television," Cleese said. "There's a strange price to pay for success, and that's that the expectations go up." But about that ending to "Holy Grail." You can almost see Cleese's look of restrained dismissal. "It just suddenly becomes rather very visual and there are lots of beautiful shots and surging music and that's kind of OK for a bit but there's just too much of it, and it's not the tone of the rest of the film," he said. "That's my feeling but most of the others would disagree." So how would he change it? "I don't know, I really don't, but I'll start thinking about it. Maybe by the time I get to your city I'll have sorted it out." Reporter Jeffrey Lee Puckett can be reached at 502-582-4160 and jpuckett@courier-journal.com. John Cleese and the Holy Grail WHEN: 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Nov. 15 WHERE: The Louisville Palace, 624 S. Fourth Street COST: $55-$95, available at LouisvillePalace.com or at the box office