Kim’s Helpful Tips - Have more fun on Facebook By Francis Navarro, Komando.com © Sdmania | Dreamstime.com 
Facebook boasts over 2 billion users. Not only is the social media site a great way to reconnect with long lost friends and relatives, you get to celebrate special events with them too. 
From Live Videos to GIFs to emojis, the social media site is always coming up with new features for sharing our life moments and making the Facebook experience more fun and engaging for everyone. 
Here are seven secret Facebook Easter eggs that can capture specific emotions that you may want to convey. They are still currently rolling out so some of them may not be available to you yet. Keep on checking though, they're a great a way to spice up your News Feed. 1. Life event reactions 
Facebook is currently updating its "Life Events" animations. When someone reacts to a life event (engagements, weddings, anniversaries, etc.), animated dancing reactions will fill up the screen. What a fun way to virtually celebrate with your friends' special moments! 2. congrats 
Include the word "congrats" in a status update or a comment. 
Effect: Festive confetti hurled across the screen, highlighted by a smiling balloon. 3. xoxo 
Include the word "xoxo" in a status update or a comment. 
Effect: Floating hearts that burst into more tiny hearts. 4. BFF 
Include the word "BFF" in a status update or a comment. 
Effect: Two floating hands, culminating with a High Five. 5. rad 
Include the word "rad" in a status update or a comment. 
Effect: Thumbs-up "Like" jet rockets blasting upwards. If you type "rad" on Facebook, it'll show up in pink, and a bunch of jet-powered likes will shoot across the screen if you click on it pic.twitter.com/rjI1Bhg0l6 
— Hot Mess™ (@astropuke) July 9, 2017 6. lmao 
Include the word "lmao" in a status update or a comment. 
Effect: Festive confetti shapes hurled across the screen, ultimately forming a laughing face. 7. thank you so much 
Include the words "thank you so much" on a status update or a comment. 
Effect: Coming soon to a News Feed near you! 
Facebook typically rolls out fun new features during the holidays so we'll keep an eye out for more secret Easter Eggs in the coming weeks! Fix Facebook annoyances and save time with this trick