Labour in Fresh Anti-Semitism Row After Candidate Posts on Facebook: ‘What Good Have the Jews Done?’ JUSTIN TALLIS/AFP/Getty by Victoria Friedman 11 Nov 2017 0 11 Nov, 2017 11 Nov, 2017 Far-left Nasreen Khan, a shortlisted Labour Party candidate for a Bradford council seat, posted anti-Semitic comments on Facebook and accused teachers of “brainwashing” children into thinking “the bad guy was Hitler”. 
A former activist for anti-Israel George Galloway’s Respect Party, Ms. Khan was responding to a video on Facebook in 2012 called, “The Palestine You Need to Know”. advertisement 
Using the name Naz Kahn, she posted: “It’s such a shame that the history teachers in our school never taught us this but they are the first to start brainwashing us and our children into thinking the bad guy was Hitler. 
“What have the Jews done good in this world??” ‘Nasty Party’: Labour Faces Brighton Conference Ban Over Anti-Semitism, Racism 
— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 27, 2017 
When questioned about the comment, she had added: “No, I’m not a Nazi, I’m an ordinary British Muslim that had an opinion and put it across. We have worse people than Hitler in this world now.” 
Responding to more criticism, she had said: “Stop beating a dead horse. The Jews have reaped the rewards of playing victims. Enough is enough!!” 
The Labour member is in a two-person shortlist for council elections next year in the Labour safe seat in the ward of Little Horton, Bradford. 
On Friday, Ms. Khan told the Telegraph & Argus that she “apologised straight away” after recently being confronted with her comments, and said they were “inappropriate and unacceptable”. 
“I have travelled a long way since then and learned so much. I profoundly regret the comments I made in 2012 and any offence they caused,” she added. 
The Labour Party has seen several high-profile figures amongst its ranks making anti-Semitic or anti-Israeli comments, notably since the party was taken over by socialist Jeremy Corbyn, who praises the Palestinian terror group Hamas. Vile Anti-Semitic Rants as Labour Activists Call for Expulsion of Jewish Groups 
— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) September 26, 2017 
In April, former London mayor Ken Livingstone was suspended from the party for claiming there was a “real collaboration” between Zionists and the Nazis before World War Two. 
And in 2016, MP Naz Shah was suspended from the party for calling for the “transportation” of Israelis out of the Middle East on social media. 
However, an investigation ordered by Corbyn, headed by Shami Chakrabarti, the director of human rights campaign group Liberty, found no indication of institutional anti-Semitism within Labour which led to Jewish community leaders calling the findings a “whitewash” and a “fraud”. 
Ms. Chakrabarti was nominated for a peerage by Corbyn just a few weeks afterwards. 
British Jews have been abandoning the Labour Party since the election of Corbyn, and a recent survey showed that four in five believe that Labour harbours anti-Semites in its ranks. Follow Victoria Friedman on Twitter Follow @friedmanpress Follow Breitbart London on Facebook and Twitter . Read More Stories About: 
Comment count on this article reflects comments made on Breitbart.com and Facebook. Visit Breitbart's Facebook Page . BREITBART CONNECT MOST POPULAR