Here are some of the comments made by lawmakers during the hearings as well as statements made by the Facebook , Google and Twitter officials. Members of Congress Sen. Dianne Feinstein, California Democrat — “You created these platforms. And now they’re being misused. And you have to be the ones who do something about it. Or we will.” Sen. Mark Warner, Virginia Democrat — “Candidly, your first presentations were less than sufficient and showed in my mind a lack of resources, a lack of commitment and a lack of genuine effort.” Sen. Richard Burr, North Carolina Republican — "Your companies are just beginning to come to grips with the scale and the depth of the problem … Your actions need to catch up to your responsibilities." Sen. Angus King, Maine Independent — “I’m disappointed that you’re here, but not your CEOs. We would appreciate seeing the top people actually making the decisions.” Sen. Ron Wyden, Oregon Democrat — “It is self-evident that in the past election you failed … You need to stop paying lip service to bad actors shutting down these accounts.” Sen. Marco Rubio, Florida Republican — "These operations, they’re not limited to 2016 and not limited to the presidential race, and they continue to this day. They are much more widespread than one election.” Sen. Chris Coons, Delaware Democrat — “Why has it taken Facebook 11 months to come forward and help us understand the scope of this problem, see it clearly for the problem it is and begin to work in a responsible legislative way to address it?” Sen. John Kennedy, Illinois Republican — “The truth of the matter is, you (Facebook) have 5 million advertisers that change every month. Every minute. Probably every second. You don’t have the ability to know who every one of those advertisers is, do you?” The companies Kent Walker, Google general counsel — “We are constantly doing better .. We could have done more.” Colin Stretch, Facebook general counsel — “The existence of those ads were on Facebook and it was not a hoax.” Sean Edgett, Twitter acting general counsel — “The abuse of our platform to attempt state-sponsored manipulation of elections is a new challenge for us — and one that we are determined to meet." – Editor-in-Chief, Silicon Valley Business Journal Nov 2, 2017, 7:08am EDT Related Content