A few days before lawyers met in court Wednesday, Libertyville Mayor Terry Weppler took to Facebook to question the Catholic Bishop of Chicago’s willingness to negotiate a settlement on the future of 40 acres of land where a housing project was denied permits earlier this year.
Wednesday’s court hearing addressed the Archdiocese’s motion to compel, in which they wanted official depositions from two Libertyville employees as soon as possible.
In Weppler’s Facebook post, he called in to question the Archdiocese’s willingness to resolve the dispute over the land along Butterfield Road through direct discussion.
“The Archdiocese has ignored requests to sit down and discuss appropriate development on the property and has ramped up the lawsuit process,” Weppler’s Oct. 28 post reads.
Pioneer Press previously reported that both sides said they were willing to talk , and that the Archdiocese said the lawsuit was filed to protect its rights in the meantime.
In the post, Weppler referred to a July meeting in which Archdiocese officials met with parishioners from Libertyville’s St. Joseph Catholic Church, but he said they still have not met with the village since the lawsuit was filed in June.
Rick Kambic Libertyville ’s motion to dismiss a lawsuit filed by the Catholic Bishop of Chicago is scheduled for an Oct. 5 hearing, meanwhile both sides still appear willing to talk about the future of the 40 acres of open land along Butterfield Road where a proposed 148-house subdivision was denied permits...
Libertyville ’s motion to dismiss a lawsuit filed by the Catholic Bishop of Chicago is scheduled for an Oct. 5 hearing, meanwhile both sides still appear willing to talk about the future of the 40 acres of open land along Butterfield Road where a proposed 148-house subdivision was denied permits...
(Rick Kambic) “At this point it appears the Archdiocese has no intent of working with the village to settle this lawsuit,” Weppler said in his Facebook post.
Individuals who attended the July meeting told Pioneer Press that Archdiocese officials expressed a firm commitment to selling the land due to financial woes.
When Pioneer Press asked about its intentions and why it hasn’t met with Libertyville officials, the Archdiocese submitted a short written statement.
“The Archdiocese remains willing to discuss a resolution with the village and the court,” the Archdiocese said in the Nov. 2 statement.
Part of the original Mundelein Seminary, the 40-acre parcel was under contract to Lake Bluff-based development company The Roanoke Group, according to village documents. Plans for the 148 houses included a mix of driveway and alley configurations with small yards for easy maintenance.
Throughout a seven-month zoning process that included numerous hearings, hundreds of people attended the meetings to oppose the project's density.
Village trustees voted unanimously March 21 to reject the project . Their comments covered a variety of conditions attached to the requested special use permit, namely safety issues and the potential impact on neighbors.
The Archdiocese filed a lawsuit June 19 and asked for a court to overrule Libertyville's decision and force the land to be rezoned and permits to be issued, according to the complaint. It also calls for current zoning to be changed before any new applications are filed instead of after a hearing.
One major point in the Archdiocese’s June 19 lawsuit says The Roanoke Group terminated its more than $10 million purchasing contract. It goes on to reference the project’s similarities to Libertyville’s comprehensive plan and argues against Libertyville’s cited safety concerns.
Libertyville filed a motion to dismiss on Aug. 4, saying the Archdiocese’s lawsuit lacked focus and didn’t meet certain criteria. A judge on Oct. 5 disagreed with Libertyville and said the lawsuit provided enough specifics.
Robert O’Donnell, the Archdiocese’s lawyer, during Wednesday’s court session said Libertyville was unfairly refusing to produce witnesses for deposition.
“This order shouldn’t be tied to whenever they want to file for discovery,” O’Donnell said. “What we’re requesting is well within the rules.”
Justin Hansen, the attorney representing Libertyville, said he disagreed with the Archdiocese’s demand to see witnesses within days of the Oct. 5 hearing on a motion to dismiss. He said a Nov. 15 case management session was supposed to decide the upcoming timelines.
“Why wouldn’t I want time to prepare my witnesses?” Hansen said. “I have provided reasons for why I want to postpone their requested depositions. Mr. O’Donnell does not have a reason for the urgency.”
Hansen said he wanted the two sides to go through discovery before individuals give testimony, because knowing what documents were submitted as evidence would allow the witnesses to better prepare themselves.
Rick Kambic Libertyville officials on Thursday were served with a lawsuit filed by the Catholic Bishop of Chicago challenging the village's March 21 rejection of a 148-house subdivision on land the church is trying to sell.
The suit was filed June 19 and asks for a court to overrule Libertyville's decision...
Libertyville officials on Thursday were served with a lawsuit filed by the Catholic Bishop of Chicago challenging the village's March 21 rejection of a 148-house subdivision on land the church is trying to sell.
The suit was filed June 19 and asks for a court to overrule Libertyville's decision...
(Rick Kambic) In a compromise, Judge David Brodsky decided that testimonies should be given on Dec. 11.
“If this is for speeding up the process then I’m all for it,” Brodsky said.
rkambic@pioneerlocal.com
Twitter @Rick_Kambic
6 dead following Ogle County fire Two men freed from prison after DNA tests prompt retrial Magnificent Mile Lights Festival Copyright © 2017, Chicago Tribune Libertyville