Locals defend city against Facebook page criticism 28 Nov, 2017 5:25am A popular Facebook page has referred to Tauranga as a s*** version of Auckland. But the mayor and locals spoken to by the Bay of Plenty Times disagree. The S**t Towns of New Zealand Facebook page said Tauranga could now lay claim to almost as many housing crises, traffic woes and Aucklanders as Auckland. The page had also called Mount Maunganui a suburb that liked to pretend it was a town and was "a handy landmark for drunken youths to meet up to exchange STDs". Advertisement Advertise with NZME. "The remainder of the population consists of old people, British people, and old British people, which explains why Winston Peters was the local MP for 21 years," the post read. "With too many people and a harbour that smells like fresh diarrhoea, Tauranga is basically a s**t version of Auckland." Tauranga Mayor Greg Brownless understood it would not fit the narrative if the page was to post positive comments about the city, but it was not the Tauranga he knew. "I don't think they have really spent much time here," Brownless said. "We enjoy walking along the beaches and most of the young people I know are decent. We do have traffic issues but we are trying to get on top of those." Despite the Facebook page having over 46,000 followers, Brownless said the post would not affect tourism. "It is for shock value entertainment," he said. "I don't think too many people would take it too seriously. I won't be losing any sleep over it." Alex Holland was visiting the Mount for a break from working long hours as a dairy farmer in the South Waikato. She said comparing Mount Maunganui to Auckland was "not even close". "I am a dairy farmer in the South Waikato and I come here to relax from the long hours that I do on the farm," she said. Holland said her friends lived in the Mount and she would never hear them say anything bad about the lifestyle. "It is a very healthy lifestyle," she said. Mount Maunganui local Evelyn Hunter was born in Tauranga and grew up in Mount Maunganui before moving to Auckland where she lived for four years. The 24-year-old had since moved back to Tauranga and said she could see the similarities between the two cities regarding traffic and housing issues. But there was no place like the Mount. "This place is paradise, it is home to me. The fact you have got the beach and harbour in your backyard, you don't get that anywhere else," she said. "Those positives are what stick with you in the long run and are what draws you back." Tourism Bay of Plenty did not wish to comment on the Facebook post. After creating a list of the "Top Five S***tiest Towns" in October, the creator of the satirical Facebook page said he had been forced to hide his identity and where he lives because of concerns for his safety. "There have been some people who haven't taken the joke the way we wanted it was intended," he said. The page was set up two years ago promising to keep viewers abreast of "everywhere s**t in Aotearoa" from the "s**tropolis of Auckland to the bubbling s**t pit of Rotorua". The best things about Tauranga: The beauty of the city and its environs Best beaches in New Zealand Friendly people Its village atmosphere despite its size - List compiled by Bay of Plenty Times reporters Street view: Locals share their thoughts on what makes the city great "Look around. You can't compare Auckland to Tauranga. Auckland is so overpopulated and here you have nice, clean beaches."Anton Clark, Tauranga "The walks and the beautiful beaches we have got are awesome."Karen Musgrave, Mount Maunganui "I am biased because I live here, but we love it. We are going for a walk to the Blowhole now."Keith Livingstone, Mount Maunganui "I love the beach, the mountain and the shopping."Zoe Whyte, Mount Maunganui