So Facebook are the arbiters of truth now? They get to decide whats true and what isn't? And you're perfectly fine with that? People should be free to share whatever opinions they like, regardless of whether or not The Ministry of Truth considers it factual... What worries me more than the corporations being dystopian horrors, is the willingness with which people like you gormlessly accept the oppression... Reply +12 123456789123345869 (9h ago) [-] All I'm saying is that if Facebook was removing posts about Trump being in the KKK then FJ wouldn't even be posting about this ****. The question on what is ethical is still debated, but in our age of headlines, it isn't hard to skew a large amount of people into thinking one way because of a single sentence and the general public's resistance to further research/effort to confirm anything. Do you know how hard that one fake clip of Trump calling Republicans the dumbest voters out there got viral? I don't have all the answers, but getting fact checking websites to at least notify the public on the in-authenticity of these articles is better than simply letting them take over the media. Reply +2 123456789123345869 (9h ago) [-] The only thing you'll accomplish with that ****, is to have the "websites" enforce their version of the truth in lieu of another. You're horribly naive if you think they're doing this out of some virtuous desire to ensure that only actual unbiased truth is spread. By giving them this power, you'll never archive what you want. You'll only ever choose who lies to you. In the one event, it'll be some idiot who spreads a article he uncritically believed. In the other event, it'll be an international corporation who has a financial vested interest in lying to you in a fashion that increases their control over you and their profit from you. One is an uninformed idiot, the other is a near eldritch horror that wants to use and abuse you. Of course I'm dramatizing for effect here, but despite my exgerations the point remains the same. If you let them have this control over what is considered "true" they absolutely will abuse it. Don't let them have this kind of power. It is obscene. Reply +1 123456789123345869 (9h ago) [-] I believe I've had this conversation on FJ before, or at least one similar. When the time comes that that actually will happen if it does, then we'll talk about it. Otherwise,we're essentially pedaling a slippery slope fallacy. Reply +1 123456789123345869 (9h ago) [-] What? No we are absolutely not. I'm not saying "They'll start good, and then slowly degrade". I'm saying that the only reason they want this in the first place, is to instantly use it to enforce their own paradigm at the expense of everything else, even the actual truth. We're already seeing it. It has already begun. Have you not been paying attention? Do I need to find the articles where the German state is conspiring with Facebook to curb freedom of speech and expression? Is this news to you?! What I'm advocating for, is that we stifle the spread of this terrible cancer, not cheer it on as it devours our right to free expression and clouds our digital senses with its own approved version of reality. We are not discussing hypotheticals. We are not discussing slippery slopes. We are discussing the terrible reality of the censor-state we are swiftly barreling towards, and which it appears you are either entirely oblivious towards or else in direct support of. #19 to #16 - anon id: 9c34a810 Reply +2 123456789123345869 (9h ago) [-] Yeah I don't agree with what Facebook is doing, but it's a PRIVATE website that has no responsibility for your freedom of speech. They can delete or edit whatever they choose if you don't like it use another site