Dubai: A man, who filmed a sexual encounter with his ex-girlfriend back in 2013 and shared the video on her Facebook wall and her husband’s this year, has been jailed for a month.
The Lebanese man was having an affair with his countrywoman in Beirut in 2013, during which he filmed their sexual encounter and kept a copy of the sex movie.
The woman broke up with him and moved to Dubai where she got married and moved on with her life.
Sometime in March this year, the Lebanese woman and her husband received a shared video on their Facebook walls showing the woman having sex with her ex-boyfriend.
According to records, the 37-year-old man had filmed the sexual encounter that happened in Beirut in 2013 secretly and without the woman’s consent or knowledge. Then when he threatened to post it online, she broke up with him and moved to Dubai. 
When the 37-year-old learnt that the woman had got married, according to records, he edited the video and introduced some background music to make it seem recent before he uploaded it on Facebook in a fit of revenge.
The Lebanese husband and his wife lodged a criminal complaint before Dubai Police’s cybercrime section. Preliminary investigation revealed that the ex-boyfriend was behind the posting of the indecent video on social media.
When he showed up before the Dubai Misdemeanours Court, the 37-year-old defendant admitted that he had posted the sex video on the Facebook walls of the woman, her husband and others.
The defendant was sentenced to a month in jail for misusing the social media [Facebook] and sharing a video of pornographic nature. He was also fined Dh5,000 for breaching the victim’s privacy and maligning her by sharing a video that showed her in a sexual encounter with the defendant.
According to the primary ruling, the defendant will be deported following the completion of his punishment.
At the same time, the victim’s lawyer, Faisal Al Zarouni, lodged a civil lawsuit against the defendant in which his client is seeking Dh21,000 in temporary compensation.
“The damages that had been inflicted on my client due to the defendant’s criminal behaviour were priceless. She was subject to slander and defamation and she has been disgraced before her husband, relatives and friends. According to the Criminal Procedures Law, she is suing the defendant for a temporary compensation against her emotional, moral and material damages,” argued Al Zarouni before the court.
Gulf News has learnt that Dubai prosecutors have appealed the primary judgement and are seeking to stiffen the punishment against the defendant.
A hearing will be scheduled before the Appeal Court later this month.