Mark Zuckerberg Vows to Stop Russian Facebook Trolls: ‘I Am Dead Serious About This’ 
“Protecting our community is more important than maximizing profits,” says exec Sean Burch | November 1, 2017 @ 2:47 PM 
On the heels of Facebook representatives testifying on Capitol Hill — along with banner Q3 earnings from the social media giant — CEO Mark Zuckerberg said Wednesday that he’s “dead serious” when it comes to dealing with Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. election. 
Zuckerberg kicked off his company’s third quarter earnings conference call Wednesday with tough talk about preventing the spread of pro-Kremlin misinformation, saying it’s of paramount importance for his company to root out Russian trolls. 
“Protecting our community is more important than maximizing profits,” he said. Also Read: Facebook Posts Mammoth 3Q Earnings, Investors Smash 'Like' Button in After-Hours Trading 
The exec reiterated what Facebook had told congressional investigators earlier in the week — that the company would be doubling its ad review team from 10,000 to 20,000. Zuckerberg added the company would be implementing artificial intelligence and machine learning to fight the spread of fake news. 
“I am dead serious about this,” said Zuckerberg. 
After the social network posted another earnings beat — including a whopping $10.33 billion in revenue during the third quarter — Zuckerberg emphasized the company’s efforts in a statement. “We’re investing so much in security that it will impact our profitability,” he said. Also Read: Bill O'Reilly Sues Ex-New Jersey Rep for $5 Million in Defamation Case 
Still, the investment in security could easily be seen as a way for Facebook to protect its most valuable asset — its users. Scaring away a healthy slice of its 2.07 billion monthly users due to the specter of fake Russian content would be a body blow to a company raking in advertising dollars. 
On Tuesday, Facebook’s General Counsel Colin Stretch told the Senate Intelligence Committee 126 million users had been exposed to Russian troll content before and after the 2016 election. This number ballooned another 20 million on Wednesday when Stretch added in the number of accounts hit on Instagram, the company’s popular photo-sharing app. 
Moving forward, Facebook said it’ll be adding a “ paid for by ” tag to its political ads, giving users insight into the source behind ads on its platform. 6 Tech Giants Shaking Up News, From Jeff Bezos to Laurene Powell Jobs (Photos) 
Tech leaders are increasingly intertwined with the news business. While some want to support old properties, one set out to destroy a new one. Here they are. 
Jeff Bezos – Washington Post 
The Amazon founder purchased the Washington Post in 2013 for $250 million in cash. President Trump has called the paper the “Amazon Washington Post.” Getty 
Chris Hughes - The New Republic 
The Facebook co-founder purchased The New Republic in 2012, becoming executive chairman and publisher. However, he sold the venerable political magazine to Win McCormack in 2016, saying he "underestimated the difficulty of transitioning an old and traditional institution into a digital media company in today’s quickly evolving climate." Getty 
Pierre Omidyar - The Intercept 
The eBay founder is a well-known philanthropist who created First Look Media, a journalism venture behind The Intercept. Inspired by Edward Snowden's leaks. Omidyar teamed up with journalists Glenn Greenwald, Jeremy Scahill and Laura Poitras to launch the website “dedicated to the kind of reporting those disclosures required: fearless, adversarial journalism.” Getty 
Peter Thiel 
The PayPal co-founder doesn’t own a news organization, but he makes this list because he essentially ended one -- Gawker -- proving once again the power of an angry billionaire. Thiel secretly bankrolled Hulk Hogan’s sex-tape lawsuit against Gawker Media because he was upset that the website once outed him as gay. Hogan won the defamation lawsuit against the site that sent its parent company into bankruptcy, and Gawker.com is no longer operating. Getty 
Mark Zuckerberg – Facebook 
OK, so Facebook isn’t technically a news organization… yet. However, the company is preparing to launch its much-anticipated lineup of original content later this summer, and there are also signs that it's on the verge of becoming an even bigger media platform. 
Campbell Brown, Head of News Partnerships at Facebook, confirmed last week it’s developing a subscription service for publishers willing to post articles directly to Facebook Instant Articles, rather than their native websites.