Martin Lewis slams Facebook after pensioner 'loses £150k after being conned by advert with Money Saving Expert's photo' The consumer champion is accusing Facebook of promoting Stern Optics by allowing misleading adverts to run on the social media website
 Share Comments By Graeme Donohoe Pippa Allen-Kinross 18:25, 26 NOV 2017 News
Martin Lewis - best known as the Money Saving Expert - is unhappy with his image being used in Facebook adverts daily A pensioner claims she was 'conned" into losing £150,000' after investing with a firm which falsely claimed to have the backing of Money Saving Expert Martin Lewis - and used a photo of him in their Facebook adverts.
Diana Bundy, 70, ploughed her life savings into a scheme with trading company Stern Options - but now fears she has lost everything after being given inaccurate reports on how her investment has performed.
Retired university administrator Diana said she has failed in repeated attempts to get her money back - despite her account statement saying it has more than doubled in value.
Lewis, the creator of the Money Saving Expert advice website, says he has been inundated with similar complaints and has blamed Facebook for not removing the misleading adverts.
On hearing of Diana's story via MirrorOnline's sister website The Daily Record today he shared the story saying: "Facebook. STOP knowingly taking shillings from thieves and conmen, and compensate victims of the scams you advertise... please share."
Diana Bundy said the experience has left her feeling "terribly fragile" Diana, who lived in Sussex before relocating to Spain, told the Scottish Daily Record : "I have had to deal with the sinking feeling that I have been conned.
“You feel so stupid. This was money from the sale of my house. I feel terribly fragile.”
Police are investigating the firm, which is listed at addresses in Glasgow and Edinburgh and claim to have offices in Switzerland, Austria and Germany.
Diana said: “I first became aware of Stern when I saw things on Facebook saying Martin Lewis supported them.
“My account suggests my investments are worth £309,000 but I just want the £150,000 I’ve invested back.
Police are investigating Stern Options (Image: Dailyecord/ WS) Read More Woman buys 'iPhone' from back of a van in 'Black Friday sale' - and gets a VERY nasty shock “I’ve been requesting my money back since the end of September but to no avail. It’s very distressing. “
According to Stern's website, the firm are owned and operated by a company called BP1 LP, who are registered with Companies House as having their headquarters in Edinburgh but the office is a virtual address run by a company called LAS International.
Government watchdogs the Financial Conduct Authority issued a warning about the firm, saying they have been targeting consumers “without our authorisation”.
The agency say Stern are based in Sofia, Bulgaria.
Finance guru Lewis said he was "devastated" by the news, and criticised Facebook for not doing more to stamp out misleading adverts.
He said: "If this woman lost £150,000 after investing in this because of me, that makes me want to cry. I'm devastated to hear it.
The advert appeared on social media (Image: Dailyecord/ WS) Money Saving expert Martin Lewis said he is "devastated" (Image: Publicity Picture) Read More Martin Lewis reveals 4 reasons why you should always pay by card - and why it might be time to quit cash, for good "This is the opposite of what my life's work has been. They're using my good reputation to harm someone's life.
“We already know of an old fellow who’s lost £17,000 and a woman who was looking after her grandchildren after their parents died. She’d put their money into this because my face was on it and lost out.
“Every time we report it to Facebook, after a couple of weeks, it gets taken down but a new one is re-launched the next day. “Facebook say the onus is on me to report it. They don’t appear to be taking responsibility.”
Diana’s family are considering legal action against Facebook over the ads.
They are also upset that her bank Barclays allowed her to make transfers of £100,000 in September without notifying her son Jasper, who is a joint account holder. Barclays said the matter is being investigated "as a priority".
Sussex police confirmed they are looking into Diana’s case and said the investigation is in its early stages.
The Sunday Mail made frequent attempts to contact Stern Options but no one provided an official comment.
A man answering their 0131 customer service number at first said they had no record of Diana being a customer.
He later claimed: “Her account is funded. She simply has to log into her account and place a withdrawal request online. The process usually takes up to seven or 10 working days.”
Facebook said they disable the accounts of those who violate their advertising policies. A spokesman added: “We prohibit adverts which are misleading, false or infringe on third-party rights. We encourage our community to report anything they suspect may violate our standards.”
LAS International did not respond to requests for a comment.
 Daily Newsletter DailyMirror Follow @DailyMirror Subscribe to our Daily Customer service Pensioner Martin Lewis Facebook Fraud