Health News MONEY RAVING EXPERT Martin Lewis rages at Facebook after social network con uses his pic to trick OAP out of £150k 
The consumer expert says he is bombarded with stories of people being tricked out of their savings after seeing the ads from firms claiming he supports them By Holly Christodoulou 26th November 2017, 8:18 pm Updated: 26th November 2017, 11:39 pm MONEY Saving Expert Martin Lewis has slammed Facebook after a pensioner was conned out of £150,000 by scammers using his photo. 
Diana Bundy, 70, ploughed her life savings into the fake scheme with Stern Options but now fears she has lost everything. Rex Features Martin Lewis has slammed Facebook for promoting ads for bogus firms using his picture 
The retired university administrator has repeatedly failed to get her money back - despite her account saying it has more than doubled in value. 
Lewis has now slammed Facebook for not removing the misleading adverts after being bombarded with similar complaints. 
He said: "Facebook. STOP knowingly taking shillings from thieves and conmen, and compensate victims of the scams you advertise... please share." 
Diana, who was based in Sussex before moving to Spain, told the Daily Record she became aware of the firm when she saw ads on Facebook saying Lewis supported them. Lewis slammed the social media network 
She is now trying to get back the original £150,000 she invested but has been fobbed off since September. 
The pensioner said: "I have had to deal with the sinking feeling that I have been conned. 
"You feel so stupid. This was money from the sale of my house. I feel terribly fragile.” 
Cops are now investigating the firm, which has addresses in Glasgow and Edinburgh and claims to have offices in Switzerland, Austria and Germany. 
The Financial Conduct Authority has issued a warning about the firm saying they have been targeting people "without our authorisation”. 
Lewis said: "f this woman lost £150,000 after investing in this because of me, that makes me want to cry. I'm devastated to hear it." MOST READ IN NEWS Student jokes she is Madeleine McCann and shows off her eye spot as evidence JOYRIDE CARNAGE Faces of five killed after stolen car smashes into tree FELL INTO POWER SAW Gran 'carved open her face when she fell face first into a power saw' BUM'S CRUSH Mystery Cambridge University student wins 'best bum 2017' WAREHOUSE OF HORRORS Amazon workers reveal brutal working conditions in warehouse PSYCH OUT Jobseeker with one GCSE told to apply for £103k job or lose £73-a-week benefits 
He also explained how the ads have been reported to Facebook, who take them down, but claims they just re-appear the next day. 
A spokesman for Facebook said: "We prohibit adverts which are misleading, false or infringe on third-party rights. 
"We encourage our community to report anything they suspect may violate our standards.” Martin Lewis reveals whether it's cheaper to switch heating off or leave it running 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.