Facebook Masterminding Dueling U.S. Protests Cost Russia Just $200 on Facebook Russian-backed Facebook groups engineered both a protest and a counter-protest outside an Islamic center in Texas. by Twitter By David Ramos/Getty Images. On May 21, 2016, two groups converged outside the Islamic Da’wah Center of Houston, the Texas Tribune reports . One had gathered at the behest of the “Heart of Texas” Facebook group for a “Stop Islamification of Texas” rally, while the other, spurred on by the “United Muslims of America” Facebook page, had organized a counter-protest to “Save Islamic Knowledge.” Now, thanks to federal lawmakers‘ release of about two dozen (out of 3,000) Facebook ads on Wednesday, it‘s apparent that both Facebook groups were controlled by Russian operatives, who, as part of their campaign to divide Americans along partisan lines, arranged the opposing rallies for the bargain price of $200. As experts have told me, the ads likely succeeded because they confirmed pre-existing biases, subliminally legitimizing the partisan beliefs of voters, particularly in swing states. Like other Russia-backed Facebook events , the Houston rallies generated real turnout on both sides. But in this case, the Russians moved beyond drumming up numbers, deliberately pitting opposing factions against each other in a clash that reportedly turned confrontational—something Mark Jacobson, an expert on Russian influence operations, told CNN was their end goal. “The Russians don't want groups like Black Lives Matter [and] the alt-right to sit there and have discussions and debates about the future of America. They want violent clashes,” Jacobson said. “If we start to see violent rallies . . . we should start to look for the hidden hand of Russian influence behind it.” Following three congressional hearings in two days, Facebook—along with Google and Twitter—remains in the crosshairs of U.S. lawmakers who now seem convinced that Russia exploited the tech platforms to meddle in the 2016 election. During a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing Wednesday, Senator Richard Burr highlighted examples of Russian-backed ads shown to Americans on Facebook, and specifically asked Facebook general counsel Colin Stretch about Russians‘ ability to organize events that mobilized Americans. “You commented yesterday that your company’s goal is bringing people together. In this case, people were brought together to foment conflict, and Facebook enabled that event to happen,” Burr told Stretch on Wednesday. What began as a disclosure from Facebook that Russian operatives had purchased $100,000 in ads on the platform has snowballed, leading to discoveries about other ways in which Russia was able to weaponize tech platforms: it disseminated divisive misinformation through fake Twitter accounts, for instance, and recruited YouTube vloggers to bash Hillary Clinton. Over the course of this week‘s hearings, lawmakers have indicated that they will dog Big Tech until companies come up with a solution they deem acceptable. “We are not going to go away, gentlemen,” Senator Dianne Feinstein told representatives . “You created these platforms, and they are being misused. And you have to be the ones to do something about it—or we will.” Share