Maynard resident has created a Facebook page to spread the word about yoga Monday Oct 30, 2017 at 2:10 PM Oct 30, 2017 at 2:10 PM Holly Camero hcamero@wickedlocal.com @BeaconVillager 
Throughout most of her travels and the changes in her life, Jean Popovich has practiced yoga. 
Today, she incorporates the concepts of yoga and meditation, which is an essential part of the practice of yoga, into her everyday life and teaches those concepts to others. To inform residents of the various opportunities in Maynard to learn yoga, she has also created a Facebook page – Yoga in Maynard -- which she hopes will become a landing page for everything related to yoga in Maynard. 
“I would like the public to know all of the [yoga] teachers in Maynard,” she said. 
Popovich was first introduced to the practice of yoga when she was 24, and taking care of a boyfriend who had cancer. A nearby yoga class helped relieve her stress. 
Two years later, she was living in the Amazon teaching English to Spanish speaking students and studying Capoeira, something she describes as “a martial art from Africa disguised as a dance." 
“So I practiced Capoeira there because I have always loved moving my body and being in alignment and I love the meditative spirit of Capoeira because you are really connected with the other person when you’re doing martial arts. So I studied that in lieu of yoga, because there was no yoga,” she said. 
She lived in the Amazon for a year and a half, before returning to Boston and working at Powell Flutes in Maynard. 
She met her now ex-husband, and they moved to Maine, both returning to Maynard once a week to pick up pieces and deliver completed flutes to Powell. 
She completed yoga training in Boston during that time, and opened a yoga studio in Maine, which she ran for about three years. Then she and her husband headed to Los Angeles for a year to teach yoga. 

Ups and downs 
While living in Los Angeles, Popovich traveled to India to attend a month-long training program in Classical Hatha yoga. 
“I lived in the ashram. [We’d] wake up at 4:30; we’d go to sleep at 9. We’d meditate all day. That was awesome,” she said. 
She remained in the ashram an additional two weeks for meditation training. 
Shortly after returning to Los Angeles she became pregnant, and before the baby was born she and her husband moved back to Maine, and opened a yoga studio. 
The couple’s second child was born in Asheville, North Carolina, where yoga was “very popular.” 
In addition to teaching yoga, they started their own business in North Carolina, repairing musical instruments. 
After a financial downturn, they moved in with with Popovich’s parents in Baltimore, before heading to Serbia, to live with her husband’s parents. 
Six months later, Popovich and her two children came back to the United States. 
She rented an apartment in Maynard and got her old job back at Powell Flutes. She and her husband divorced about two years later. 
She still lives in that apartment in Maynard, and teaches yoga at Explore Pathways to Wellness in Maynard and Revolution Community Yoga in Acton. 

Yoga in everyday life 
Today, Popovich says, yoga is her life, helping to improve the strength and flexibility of her body, and her concentration. 
“[Yoga makes] you feel calm… to improve clarity and discernment,” she said. 
She tries to implement the concepts of yoga when approaching all situations, but admits some of them can be difficult to understand at first. 
For example, one of the tenets is non-attachment. That doesn’t mean one is not attached to other people. Being non-attached means loving and helping others, but realizing and accepting that the outcome may not be the one envisioned. 
“[It’s] being more solid and stable in yourself so you can make better choices and see the reality of the situation instead of just reacting to whatever happens,” she said. 
She used as an example, a child crying in a store. Often, she said, a parent’s first reaction is embarrassment and anger. 
“But if you’re mindful, you can look and see what is the real cause of the child’s distress,” she said. 
It could be that the child wants attention, or has to go to the bathroom, but is unaware there is a bathroom in the store. 
“So just being able to see a larger picture when you’re interacting with people and finding that calmness within yourself so that you don’t lash out,” she said. 
Anyone can learn to practice yoga, she said, and postures can be adjusted to any age and skill level. 
“In my classes, we use props to help if you are unable to achieve certain postures,” she said. “We use chairs. We use blocks and bolsters.” 
Postures can be duplicated at home, but she said it is important to learn from a qualified teacher. 
“I’ve been teaching for 15 years,” she said. “I can anticipate what people need.” 
She invites yoga teachers to post class information on the Facebook page. 
“I want Yoga In Maynard to be a place where you can see all the classes,” she added. Visit facebook.com/groups/1145068098873391/ or search for Yoga in Maynard on Facebook.