Email Ocean Boulevard shooting captured on video WARNING: This video contains graphic content. A tourist caught the entire shooting on Ocean Boulevard during a Facebook live video. An officer was not shot during the incident, Myrtle Beach police say. WARNING: This video contains graphic content. A tourist caught the entire shooting on Ocean Boulevard during a Facebook live video. An officer was not shot during the incident, Myrtle Beach police say. Video provided by Bubba Hinson on Facebook WARNING: This video contains graphic content. A tourist caught the entire shooting on Ocean Boulevard during a Facebook live video. An officer was not shot during the incident, Myrtle Beach police say. Video provided by Bubba Hinson on Facebook Mayor Rhodes feels backlash after criticizing man who Facebook Lived June shooting 
By Megan Tomasic Order Reprint of this Story October 30, 2017 10:56 AM 
Mayoral candidate Ed Carey doesn’t want to wait until election day. He’s demanding that Myrtle Beach Mayor John Rhodes step down now after “verbal attacks” against the fireman who videotaped the Father’s Day shooting in downtown Myrtle Beach. 
At a mayoral debate on Oct. 26, Rhodes said, “That gentleman that took the film was a fireman that was here on a fireman’s convention. He was a sworn officer that was supposed to respond to people in trouble and injured. He was so busy taking the film he never did what his job called for him to do, and that was to respond to injured people on the boulevard.” 
After Bubba Hinson released a response to Rhodes’ statement, Rhodes told The Sun News, “I’m glad they had no one in Las Vegas or in New York City during 9/11 that was more interested in taking film than in rescuing lives.” 
Now, Rhodes is facing criticism on social media and from Carey, who believes that Hinson’s decision to continue filming was what he should have done. 
“Contrary to the Mayor’s shockingly insensitive remarks Bubba Hinson deserves our heartfelt thanks and appreciation, not criticism by our highest ranking public official,” Carey said in a statement. “He is the face and voice of Myrtle Beach. He has already driven away thousands of valuable tourists and he’s has 12 years of fame and apparently fortune, but his recent comments and behavior have made to citizens of Myrtle Beach aware of a crisis in public safety...and leadership.” 
The video reached millions of viewers on social media and put Myrtle Beach in the national spotlight, making public safety a key issue in the upcoming election. 
In response to the shooting, along with five other shootings that plagued the city over Father’s Day weekend, Myrtle Beach City Manager John Pedersen requested that barricades be placed along part of the central stretch of Ocean Boulevard. The intention was to stop pedestrian traffic from interacting with people in vehicles. 
The video of the early morning shooting that left seven injured, shows a large crowd walking down Ocean Boulevard, weaving in and out of the street. 
Late in July the barricades were removed with the recommendation from Myrtle Beach Police Chief Amy Pock. 
Early in October, Prock announced a police plan that would hire 70 new officers over the course of ten years. Of those 70 officers, 56 would be on the streets and 14 would do behind-the-scenes work. 
In response to Rhodes’ remarks, Hinson stated in a Facebook Live video Sunday afternoon, “So I would like to ask Mayor Rhodes something. Where were you when this incident took place? I think someone owes someone an apology.”