Emily Bell 
The inability to tell what’s advertising and what isn’t is a problem for democracy. But it’s one that media companies are loath to tackle ‘It is so difficult to know exactly what messages are being targeted where, and almost impossible for users to identify what might be a targeted ad.’ Photograph: Dado Ruvic/Reuters View more sharing options Sunday 29 October 2017 15.00 GMT Last modified on Monday 30 October 2017 17.11 GMT 
A lmost a year after the shock election of Donald Trump, the communication tactics and tools that helped him win power remain the most controversial issue in American politics and media. The 2016 “October surprise” was, in retrospect, not so much the leak of Hillary Clinton’s boring emails as the realisation that Silicon Valley had accidentally built a highly efficient real-time trading system for targeted propaganda . 
A small office of Russian trolls could derail 241 years of US political history with a handful of dank memes and an advertising budget that would barely buy you a billboard in Brooklyn. 
On Wednesday, lawyers from Twitter, Facebook and Google will head to Washington DC to try to explain to congressional intelligence committees exactly how they allowed groups of foreign actors to target American voters. 
Facebook has admitted to selling $100,000 of advertising, some of it in roubles, to suspicious parties, even though it found it impossible to say exactly what the ads were or who might have seen them. Twitter has been so mortified by the possibility that uncontrolled bot armies on its platform might have swayed the vote that it is opening a “transparency centre” for future political advertising disclosures. It also announced last week it was banning two Kremlin-supported media outlets, RT and Sputnik, from buying advertising. 
Embarrassingly for Twitter, RT responded by immediately publishing details of meetings between RT and Twitter’s partnership teams before the 2016 election where Twitter brainstormed ad strategies with the Russians. 
Related: In the new robopolitics, social media has left newspapers for dead | Damian Tambini 
The details from RT are excruciating for Twitter in the current context, if they are accurate. The Russian broadcaster claims that Twitter approached RT with a comprehensive pre-election advertising plan. In order to entice RT to agree to the exclusive elections offer, Twitter promised a package of perks and bonuses. 
The offer included such things as closed beta testing of new tools and products, a customised emoji hashtag that would help RT stand out with special election coverage; customised analytics and research solutions, and a dedicated team of Twitter experts to help with content curation and media strategy. 
This kind of service is available from most platform “partner” teams at social media companies, whose job it is to encourage publishers to use their technologies and pay money to boost their presence on them. Perhaps the most ironic aspect of Twitter banning RT and Sputnik from buying advertising is that both Russian media outlets still have active accounts serving, in RT’s case, more than 2.5 million followers.And, to further highlight the problem with platform governance, they have accounts blue “verified” ticks. 
While the spotlight has shone brightly on the Russian advertising issue, it seems likely that activities that had no financial component were more influential in moving or subduing voters. A blend of “organic” – unpaid – activity promoted with a light sprinkling of cash is what really propels brands, arguments, events and other “content” to the top of people’s social media feeds. (Jonathan Albright, a research director at Columbia University’s Tow Center, has collected data showing that the overall reach and activity of the Russian propagandists vastly exceeds the reach of the 3,000 ads Facebook admits to selling.) 
In getting to grips with this problem, politicians and the media are realising that the way we think and talk about different types of messages has been well and truly broken. Social media has made a practice – and a fortune – out of erasing traditional boundaries between different types of material. Where once we had propaganda, press releases, journalism and advertising, we now have “content”. Where once we had direct marketing, display advertising and promotions, now we have “monetisation”. Where we once had media owners, ad agencies and clients, now we have “partners”. Who could possibly object to partners monetising their content? It sounds so mutually beneficial and efficient. On the other hand neo-Nazis paying to target pensioners with racist propaganda has a less wholesome ring to it. 
A piece of research released last week by the US academics Daniel Kreiss and Shannon MacGregor describes the role that social media companies played in 2016’s domestic politics, noting with surprise that the relationship between technology companies and political campaigns often went far beyond that of vendor and purchaser. The study describes how the technology companies wooed campaigns, and that partnership teams within companies such as Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft “serve as quasi-digital consultants to campaigns, shaping digital strategy, content, and execution”. This will sound eerily familiar to media companies and news organisations that have a similarly symbiotic relationship with their technological frenemies. This closeness is perhaps as big a worry for the long-term health of democracy as the inadvertent access tech companies have given to malicious actors. 
One response to the immediate crisis is the honest ads act, a bipartisan bill that aims to bring digital political advertising into line with other media, demanding full disclosure about funding sources from anyone spending over $500. Until now, digital advertising has been classified in the same way as skywriting or promotional messages on pencils, which avoid the necessity for disclosure for practical reasons. If that defence was ever relevant to digital advertising it is certainly no longer applicable now. The problem is that it is not clear even that paid persuasion in online messaging would be classified as ‘political advertising. It might not even mention a candidate or a party but just propagate a certain set of values. It might be, as some of the Russian activity was, an invitation to a public meeting or a rally. 
It is so difficult to know exactly what messages are being targeted where, and almost impossible for users to identify what might be a targeted ad. Investigative journalists at the American non-profit news organisation ProPublica have built a project to collect and index all political ads circulated through Facebook. Once similar projects examined election flyers, or pamphlets pushed through doors. Now collecting and analysing the vast amount of varied material requires algorithms and browser extensions. The content of targeted ads is considered confidential by the platforms and their clients, so unless disclosure is voluntary it takes a forensic operation to even look at the content of commercial messages. 
The inability to know what an ad is when you see one is more convenient for media companies than they would like to admit. The dwindling display advertising model propping up many publishers is giving way to a model of “native advertising”, which merges with editorial. Media companies can now operate effectively as advertising agencies for companies, helping them shape and write “stories” that throw an innocuous light on a given subject or present the advertiser or their sector in a sanitised and uncritical way. Most publishers would reject the idea that their partnerships with companies and advertisers were part of the same problem as the democratic threat from overseas authoritarians. But the tools and techniques of political messaging and manipulation are exactly the same as those used by commercial publishers to create new types of advertising revenue. 
The Russian campaign advertising scandal has electrified American media, not least because they enjoy the ritual humiliation of their invincible Silicon Valley overlords. But if the root of the problem is tackled, it could have unwelcome repercussions for them far closer to home. Topics