Melissa Andrews Facebook Giveaway - Toledo News Now, News, Weather, Sports, Toledo, OH Member Center: WTOL 11 Toledo Rockets GIVEAWAY OFFICIAL PROMOTION RULES Promotion Description . This promotion is sponsored by WTOL, LLC, 730 N. Summit Street (“Sponsor(s)”). The promotion begins at Tuesday 10/31/2017 at or about 10 :00am EST and ends at Wednesday 11/1/2017 at 9am EST. Entries must be received by Wednesday 11/1/2017 at 9am EST. Promotion is subject to local, state, and federal laws, and is void where prohibited . By entering, each entrant accepts and agrees to be bound by these promotion rules . By entering, each entrant accepts and agrees to be bound by these promotion rules . No purchase necessary to enter or win . This promotion is open only to legal U.S. residents who are 18 years of age. Employees and immediate family members of employees of WTOL 11, FOX36, Raycom Media, Inc., American Spirit Media, Inc., and their respective parent companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, agents, and their advertising and production agencies are not eligible to participate in this promotion. How to Enter . There is (1) way to enter this promotion. Beginning at or about 10:00am on 10/31/0217 a person 18 years or older, can go online to the Melissa Andrews’ Facebook Page and look for the Facebook post promoting the UT Rockets Giveaway and like or comment on the post that says like or comment to win UT tickets. Entries must be received Wednesday 11/1/2017 at 9am EST in order to qualify. Only one entry per facebook log in will be accepted, and multiple entries will be disqualified . All entries become the property of Sponsor, and Sponsor reserves the right to use any information submitted by entrants. Entries must be filled out completely and legibly in order to qualify, and will be void if they are, in whole or in part, incomplete, illegible, damaged, irregular, counterfeit, altered, or obtained through theft or fraud. No mechanically reproduced, software-generated or other automated multiple entries are permitted. Sponsor is not responsible for lost, late, illegible, misdirected or mutilated entries, including due to transmission, technical, and/or network failures of any kind, including, without limitation, malfunctioning of any hardware or software (whether originating with sender or Sponsor), telephonic failures, human error, or any other error or malfunction. For online entries, the authorized account holder of the e-mail address submitted at time of entry will be considered the entrant. An “authorized account holder” shall mean the natural person assigned to such e-mail account by the Internet access provider, online service provider, or other organization responsible for assigning e-mail addresses for the domain associated with such e-mail account. A potential winner may be requested to provide proof that he or she is the authorized account holder of the e-mail address associated with a winning entry. Entrants agree not to upload, post or transmit any materials which contain any computer viruses, Easter eggs, worms, Trojan Horses or other harmful component or programming routines that are intended to damage, detrimentally interfere with, surreptitiously intercept or expropriate any system, data or personal information. Any attempt to deliberately damage any web site or undermine the operation of the promotion is a violation of criminal and civil laws, and Sponsor(s) reserve(s) the right to seek damages from any person who makes such attempt(s). Entry materials that have been tampered with or altered are void. Any questions regarding the number of entries submitted by an individual or the authorized account holder of an e-mail address shall be determined by Sponsor in its sole discretion, and Sponsor reserves the right to disqualify any entries by persons determined to be tampering with or abusing any aspect of the promotion. Prize: There is one (1) grand prize winner. One winner will receive 4 tickets to the UT Rockets game against Northern Illinois on Thursday 11/2/2017. The grand prize approximate total value for each 4 pack of ticket is $120. Restrictions may apply. All other expenses are the responsibility of the winner. No prize may be exchanged for cash, transferred, or assigned by the winner. Sponsor reserves the right to substitute a prize, in which case a prize of equal or greater value will be awarded. How the Prize is Awarded . The prizes will be awarded via a random drawing to be held on or about Wednesday 11/1/2017 at 9am EST at 730 North Summit Street, Toledo, OH 43604. All winners will be messaged using Facebook Messenger with details about claiming their tickets. The Grand Prize winners must pick up their prize at WTOL 11 studios located at 730 North Street, Toledo, Ohio 43604, weekdays between the hours of 9 am – 4:30PM BY Thursday 11/2/2017 at 3pm. Odds of Winning . The odds of winning depend on the number of eligible entries received. Conditions of Acceptance of Prize . Driver’s license or other appropriate picture identification is required to claim a prize. The winner and his/her travel companions will be required to execute and return a release and affidavit of eligibility within 30 days of prize notification, or the prize will be forfeited. If a winner cannot be reached by 3pm on 11/2/2017, the prize may be forfeited, and Station may, in its sole discretion, randomly select another winner. Winner will be solely responsible for any and all local, state, and federal taxes, as well as license and registration fees incurred by participating in the promotion, including, but not limited to, transportation costs, gratuities and other items of an incidental nature. WTOL 11 will report any individual winnings over $600 (in cash or fair market value of goods or services) in a one year period to the Internal Revenue Service. Winner will receive a Form 1099 from WTOL 11 if WTOL 11 reports any winnings to the Internal Revenue Service. The winner agrees to the use of his or her name and likeness in publicity without any additional compensation, except where prohibited by law. By entering this promotion, the winner acknowledges that WTOL 11 has the right to publicize and broadcast the winner’s name, voice, and likeness, the fact that he or she won, and all matters incidental thereto. Limitation on Liability . By entering this promotion, each entrant forever discharges and releases Sponsor, its parent companies, subsidiaries, affiliates, and their respective directors, officers, employees, and agents from any and all liability, claims, causes of action, suits, and demands of any kind arising from or in connection with the promotion, including, without limitation, responsibility for property damage, loss of life, or personal injury resulting from or in connection with participating in the promotion or from or in connection with use or receipt of the prize, however caused. Sponsor’s Reservation of Rights . These official rules are subject to modification by WTOL 11. In the event of a dispute, all decisions made by WTOL 11 are final and binding. Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to disqualify any person who tampers with the entry process or the operation of Sponsor’s web site(s), or who otherwise acts in violation of these official rules. Sponsor further reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to cancel, terminate, or modify this promotion if, for any reason, the promotion is not capable of completion as planned (including, but not limited to, for the following reasons: infection by computer virus, technical corruption, force majeure, or non-authorized human intervention that compromises or affects the administration, fairness, integrity, security, or proper conduct of the promotion). Name of Winner . For the name of the winner, send a self-addressed stamped envelope to WTOL 11, 730 North Summit Street, Toledo, Ohio 43604 or visit the WTOL 11 Facebook Page. Can't Find Something?