Politics NEWS Morning top 5: Facebook to create hundreds of jobs; Shocking rental conditions revealed in Dublin; Spain to issue warrant for Catalan leader The top stories this morning on Newstalk.com 6:35 3 Nov 2017 Michael Staines 14 hours ago 
The Taoiseach has been told that Facebook will create ‘hundreds’ of jobs in Ireland next year. 
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg confirmed the news during a meeting with Leo Varadkar in California last night. 
The Taoiseach says he also held 'constructive' talks with Apple CEO Tim Cook – where he stressed the importance of their planned data centre in Athenry. 
The Head of Facebook Ireland, Gareth Lambe, says details of their new jobs are still being worked out. 
*** 
Shocking footage has revealed the conditions facing residents in some privately rented accommodation. 
An RTÉ Investigates programme uncovered one building with more than 60 tenants, while another had more than 40 people living there. 
Three buildings - in Crumlin, Kilmainham and Rathmines - have since been closed after inspections by Dublin Fire Brigade. 
The Labour Party’s housing spokesperson said some landlords are exploiting “very vulnerable people.” 
*** 
People are being urged to donate their Irish Water refunds to charities tackling the homeless crisis. 
€173m will be handed back to almost one million customers over the coming months. 
The Simon Communities, Focus Ireland and the Peter McVerry Trust have teamed up to launch a new campaign encouraging those that can afford to donate, to do so. 
Kieran Mulvey, chair of the ‘Refund Project,’ said homelessness is the “most important cause in our country.” 
*** 
The Spanish judge leading the investigation into Catalonia’s declaration of independence will today issue a European Arrest Warrant for the region’s deposed President. 
Carles Puigdemont has fled to Belgium. 
Eight former members of the Catalan government were jailed last night while Spanish authorities continue their investigation into possible charges of rebellion and misuse of funds. 
There were large protests throughout the region last night after the decision to remand the politicians in custody was announced. 
*** 
Twitter says a worker deactivated Donald Trump's account on his last day at work. 
The US President's handle went down for 11 minutes last night, resulting in the temporary loss of millions followers. 
The social media giant says it's investigating and steps are being taken to avoid it happening again. 6:35 3 Nov 2017