Mum shames women who 'made snarky comments' about her breastfeeding at Disneyland Her 10-month-old baby got hungry when she was standing in a line
 Share Comments By Nicola Oakley Audience Growth Editor 10:25, 23 NOV 2017 Updated 12:06, 23 NOV 2017 Lifestyle
Minnie and Mickey probably wouldn't have been bothered by it (Image: Getty) A mum who became the target of 'snarky comments' when she breastfed her baby in public got immediate revenge - by getting her husband to take a photo and posting it on Facebook.
Brittni Medina was standing in a long queue for a ride at Disneyland when her baby got hungry.
Instead of exiting the line and having to queue again, she decided to feed her 10-month-old boy there and then.
Posted the amusing image to the page 'Breastfeeding Mama Talk', Quote: : "We’re pretty comfortable feeding anywhere; any way.
"Well these ladies were so angry by it my husband just had to take a picture. Peep the haters. Characters of the day. Just had to get a picture!"
Of course, the women could have been frowning because their favourite ride had a huge queue.
Brittni kept smiling through it all (Image: Facebook) But it does seem as though they're looking disapprovingly right at her.
She later edited the post after receiving negative comments about breastfeeding her baby while walking around.
Quote: : "Because people want to act all bent out of shape no I was not walking around feeding him in this moment - I have tho (sic) before and would do it again).
"I was standing in a very long line to get our picture taken. My son got hungry and I wasn’t going to wait in another line again so I took off my first top and nursed.
"These women were making snarky comments so I moved from my spot to catch a picture with these characters.
"Not for attention for me but attention to the fact NO WOMEN SHOULD BE SHAMED FOR FEEDING THEIR BABY UNCOVERED."
Women are often told to cover up in public - just for feeding their babies (Image: Getty) Her post won praise from hundreds of women and men alike.
Nicholas Quote: : "The expressions speak volumes! pictures of them sucking lemons spread all around the world!
"Good on you and lucky boy to have you as a mother and his dad as a father."
But some weren't so keen on her breastfeeding in public.
Justin Duggan commented: "I totally agree with breast feeding but when you're in a family place with young children running around it's just respectful to at least cover up a little so that your whole t*t isn't just able to be seen by everyone.
Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now "Just have respect for those around you who may not be comfortable seeing your breasts. Especially in Disney where other cultures get really offended."
Her photo has had almost 7,000 'Reactions', 1,000 shares and 1.3k comments since she posted it.
 Theme parks Breastfeeding Parenting