Mum's horror as she discovers mystery food thief is GIANT RAT after setting up Facebook Live Sara Ruggeri wanted to know exactly who or what was nibbling at her food - but the answer was twice as big as she expected
 Share Comments By Tristan Cork 15:02, 9 NOV 2017 Updated 15:33, 9 NOV 2017 News Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now daily A mother who was determined to hunt down a mysterious food thief got more than she bargained for when she set up a live video stream to catch the crook in action.
Sara Ruggeri found food kept on disappearing from her countertops and was determined to flush out her kitchen criminal.
Her children were adamant that it was not them so Sara turned to modern technology to solve her crisis.
And she was shocked when she discovered a giant rat had been pinching her food, the Bristol Post reports.
After asking her neighbours and local community for advice on a local community Facebook group called ‘Not Booty But BS5’, she left a bread roll on the worktop in the kitchen and her phone to constantly film the roll to see what would happen.
Sara Ruggeri left a piece of bread on the side and set up a live Facebook stream (Image: Sara Ruggeri) Sara said she was shocked when the food thief was revealed to be a giant rat (Image: Sara Ruggeri) Read More KFC closes outlet after rat 'ran through chips in front of terrified staff and customers' And to increase the number of eyes watching, when she was putting her children to bed, she shared the Facebook Live on the group.
It became compulsive viewing. For more than three hours on Tuesday evening, November 7, the people of Easton, Whitehall and St George stared intently at a piece of bread left in an empty kitchen.
The bread didn’t move and whatever it was didn’t turn up.
Sara repeated the exercise on Wednesday night, November 8, from a different spot with the lights lower, and the now-obsessed people of BS5 didn’t have to wait long.
After 34 minutes, a huge rat scuttled across the back of her hob, sniffed around the sprinkling of flour Sara had left to get footprints, and then brazenly grabbed the bap and began munching away.
The rat ran off with the piece of bread (Image: Sara Ruggeri) And the creature soon disappeared (Image: Sara Ruggeri) Read More Residents barricaded in their own homes by 3ft high wall of bin bags in 'Britain's filthiest street' Social media in BS5 went into meltdown. Sara herself wasn’t watching – she was busy putting her two children, aged six and three, to bed. But she got a message on another phone.
“It said ‘there is a huge rat in your kitchen!’ I quickly watched the FB Live and couldn’t believe it. I couldn’t believe how big it was, it was twice the size I feared it would be,” she said.
The rat soon disappeared and now the mum-of-two is wanting the problem sorted as soon as possible.
“I simply don’t have the money for a private pest controller. I am really worried that it’s more than one, that this is going to be difficult and expensive to get rid of, that they are in my loft or something,” she said.
“I had been accusing the children of eating the food in the kitchen, because there were no droppings, there were no footprints. Then I thought it might be a squirrel or something.
Sara has had someone come to her house to put traps down (Image: Sara Ruggeri) “The reason why I put it on the FB group was so that more people might see, but I had no idea it was going to be watched by so many people.
“But I am so glad I did, because all the people commenting have been so supportive. In the Not Booty But BS5 group, people have been messaging me asking me if I am ok, they have been offering advice and offering to lend me traps, and one man has come to see what can be done,” she added.
“Lots of people were having a big joke about it, but even that was ok, that helped me see the funny side of it.
“I’m not a squeamish person, but it was the fact that this huge thing was in my space. I don’t know how long it has been there and I felt powerless,” she added.
“I phone the council to get the pest control out and the earliest they can come is December 22,” said Sara. “I thought that is too long – I’ve got two young children here and it’s very difficult to explain to them not to touch things.
“I don’t know how much of the food I’ve been eating this rat has been sniffing over, it’s horrible. I would love any assistance any expert can give me,” she said.
The man who offered to help is Ken Thomas, a retired man who rescues wild animals for Secret World. He was at the house in St George on Thursday to lay traps.
“I’ve had a look and it seems it’s coming up through the hole in the floor behind the dishwasher where the pipes go out,” he said. “I’ve laid a few traps, so hopefully this will work.
“But it is a big rat, and some. When I saw the size of it, I thought ‘that is going to be a challenge’,” he added.
 Daily Newsletter DailyMirror Follow @DailyMirror Subscribe to our Daily Food Giant rats Facebook Animals