IN News 07.11.2017, 23:09 Mum-of-five who encouraged terror attacks on Facebook walks free as judge tells her to ‘get back to children’ 
A mum-of-five has been spared jail for posting Islamic State propaganda on a Facebook group after a judge was moved by the "suffering" of her children. 
Farhana Ahmed, 40, had been held in custody since being charged in April this year over the 2015 posts that encourage terror attacks – and during that time her children, aged between six and 16, were cared for by relatives. 
Judge Christopher Moss QC sentenced her to a suspended term of two years after she admitted encouraging terrorism with her posts on ‘Power Strangers’ Facebook group and three counts of disseminating documents. 
The judge was "moved" by a letter from her eldest son and told Ahmed: "In your exceptional case, the sooner you are returned to your children, the better for all concerned." 
The court had heard how Ahmed had been a "prolific" contributor to the Facebook group, whose name appeared to play on the popular American teenage superhero film Power Rangers. 
The closed section, which had 1,406 members, described itself as a "pro-IS group, the purpose of it is to connect mawhideen brothers from different parts of the world and to help each other". 
Ahmed used the fake name Kay Adams to encourage terrorism in the UK and abroad on the social media site between September and November 2015. 
Her postings included a speech by an IS spokesman and a link to an "extensive online library" of terrorist publications, prosecutor Ben Lloyd said. 
He said: "It is clear from the defendant’s decision to join this group, and then by virtue of the material that she posted, that she shared the group’s ideology and aims." 
Ahmed’s posts, in which she expressed approval of the Paris terror attacks, had attracted a large number of followers. 
The British national travelled to Turkey with her husband Muhammed Burmal Karwani and their five children in November 2013. 
She and the children returned to Britain while her husband stayed behind and, when she tried to go to Turkey in August 2015, she was turned away by authorities, the Old Bailey heard. 
Mr Lloyd said: "It may be that following this, the defendant decided to begin her campaign on Facebook encouraging terrorism." 
The court heard Ahmed’s behaviour was borne from a difficult period of her life, and she had now rejected extremism. 
The court heard she had been effectively a lone parent living in temporary accommodation and had "suffered at the hands of strangers". 
In mitigation, Hossain Zahir said his client was a "good mother" and was full of remorse. 
Judge Moss said her period in custody had already had an "extremely adverse effect on the children". 
He told Ahmed: "You have devoted your life, apart from this abhorrent behaviour, to the care of your children. 
"There is no realistic danger of you returning to the mindset evidence of your conduct of two years ago. 
"You want nothing more than to return to your family and your family want nothing more that to return to them. They have suffered greatly by your period in custody. Your case is in an entirely exceptional category." 
As she left the dock, Ahmed, who wore a headscarf, acknowledged the judge and quietly said "thank you". 
The prosecution offered no evidence on two terrorism-funding charges which related to thousands of pounds sent to Ahmed’s husband, who has since been acquitted of terrorism offences in Turkey and returned to the UK.