'PARTY BEHIND CURTAINS' Businesswoman held ‘drugs party’ in a hospital then posted bragging pics on Facebook 
Pictures seem to show the ex-council worker exhaling smoke next to lines of white powder, as medical equipment can be seen behind her and a pal By Ellie Cambridge 1st November 2017, 11:02 am Updated: 1st November 2017, 4:49 pm Comments A MUM-of-one posted pictures of her and a pal having a "party behind the curtains" in hospital - with lines of suspicious white powder. 
Businesswoman Rebecca Barns-Gambrell, 39, uploaded the images in a group with more than 71,000 members dedicated to "the sesh" - but claims it was intended to criticise drug use. Mercury Press Rebecca Barns-Gambrell posted pictures of her and a pal joking about taking drugs while in hospital 
Pictures seem to show the ex-council worker exhaling smoke next to lines of white powder, as medical equipment can be seen behind the pair. 
Rebecca's post on Sesh Club read: "When your mate visits you in hospital and you got your stash in your bag naturally and it's party behind the curtains !!.. Saturday night stops for no man.. or woman." 
But after the pictures received backlash the recruitment company owner from Plymouth, Devon, claimed they were taken as a joke. 
She said: "The white powder didn't belong to me or my friend - it belonged to somebody that was staying with myself at home. Mercury Press The pair posted photos of a white powder with a rolled up bit of paper Mercury Press This is the Facebook post the mum-of-one posted 
"I'd found it on the Friday and I had it on me [when I got to hospital]. 
"I was a member of a few groups and you see [images of drugs] going around and we don't agree with it all. 
"It's hard to say this over the phone… I'll tell you now that that product wasn't taken. That product was handed in to the staff at the hospital, it wasn't used. 
"I didn't want it in my house and my lodger is gone now. 
"The smoke was just messing around - it was an [e-cigarette mod]. My friend and I were mocking it up as a joke when I was in hospital. 
"I've made a conscious decision to get rid of a lot of people that have that background [drug taking]. I'm fed up of seeing it all publicly. 
"The post was a horror post. I detest seeing it [drugs] all being publicly posted all the time. Mercury Press The businesswoman said she posted the images to criticise drug use Mercury Press She ended up deleting her Facebook profile after receiving some backlash from the post 
"My friend was coming to check I was okay in hospital. I was in there from Friday. 
"I made a point with that post and then I removed myself from Facebook. My life is now moving forward since Saturday." 
Rebecca had two Facebook accounts under the name Rebecca and Beki – however deleted the latter after backlash from her post. 
One angry Facebook user wrote: "It's great until you realise the NHS is stretched to its limits with people desperately in need of medical care that they can't get and then you get these two smackheads doing this. Absolute joke." 
Another said: "Brilliant until the fire alarm goes off and they have to evacuate and get the fire brigade out and it costs lots of money." 
One wrote: "They need to be shot in the f g head..." 
Another joked: "If you OD [overdose], at least you're in the hospital." 
A spokesperson for Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust said: "The social media post has been brought to our attention and we are investigating." MOST READ IN NEWS Pedestrian trapped under black cab after it ploughs into crowd in Covent Garden FRIGHT NIGHT Halloween revellers hit the streets for a VERY scary night on the tiles 'HE WAS A PREDATOR, I WAS A CHILD' Dustin Hoffman accused of sexually harassing intern, 17 BOMBERS AWAY! Russian bombers heading for US warships intercepted by jets near North Korea Kevin showed me his clock Spacey 'flashed Brit, 19, and gave him £5k watch to keep quiet' 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368. We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.