Sign Up for Breaking News Alerts Please fill out this field with valid email address. Sign Up YouTube Terminates Toy Freaks Channel Amid Broader Crackdown on Disturbing Kids' Content 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 24 hours ago Liza Koshy to Star in YouTube Red Comedy Series 'Liza on Demand' Premiering in 2018 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 1 day ago NBA Star Dwyane Wade Has His Own Facebook Reality Show 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 1 day ago Google Spotlight Stories Releases VR Short 'Sonaria' With Steam, Viveport, Mobile App 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 1 day ago Fox's Dana Walden Joins Hulu Board of Directors 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 1 day ago Apple Delays HomePod Speaker Until Early 2018 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 1 day ago Vice Suspends Film Producer Jason Mojica Amid Sexual Harassment Investigation 
Dwyane Wade is bringing a docu-series to Facebook’s Watch video platform that will provide a look at the Cleveland Cavaliers star’s life off the court. The series, “BackCourt: Wade,” premieres Monday, Nov. 20, on Facebook, with new episodes to follow each Monday. The five-episode series was funded by Facebook and produced by Bob Metelus Studio. […] 1 day ago