Sign Up for Breaking News Alerts Please fill out this field with valid email address. Sign Up YouTube Terminates Toy Freaks Channel Amid Broader Crackdown on Disturbing Kids' Content 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 8 hours ago Liza Koshy to Star in YouTube Red Comedy Series 'Liza on Demand' Premiering in 2018 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 9 hours ago NBA Star Dwyane Wade Has His Own Facebook Reality Show 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 11 hours ago Google Spotlight Stories Releases VR Short 'Sonaria' With Steam, Viveport, Mobile App 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 12 hours ago Fox's Dana Walden Joins Hulu Board of Directors 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 13 hours ago Apple Delays HomePod Speaker Until Early 2018 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 14 hours ago Vice Suspends Film Producer Jason Mojica Amid Sexual Harassment Investigation 
Get ready for interactive virtual reality to invade your Facebook news feed: Sony Pictures and Oculus have jointly developed a new virtual reality (VR) experience for the upcoming “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” movie that runs in VR headsets, on mobile phones, desktop PCs and even on Facebook. The experience, which was also co-developed by Avatar […] 15 hours ago