WAX Newquay manager Sam Karkeek's reaction when he saw what had happened Share Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
A Newquay business was attacked after a local individual paid trolls based in South America to leave hundreds of one-star reviews on its Facebook page. 
The Facebook page of WAX Newquay, a bar which only opened inside the former Lloyds Bank on Central Square in July, was targeted over the course of the weekend. 
The bar management believe a local person paid for the negative reviews, either because they “thought it would be funny or wanted to hurt our business”. 
Fortunately, Facebook admins reacted quickly and removed the 150 fake one-star reviews (five being the highest and best) which were left before any damage could be done to the bar’s business and reputation. Read More 
A spokesperson for WAX said: “On Friday morning we were confused to see that our Facebook page review rating had gone from five star to one star. WAX Newquay opened its doors in July 
“It turns out our Facebook page was attacked with over 90 one star reviews, with people from South America hitting our page in the space of one minute. We then got hit again on Saturday with another 60. 
“It appears that this attack was paid for by someone locally, who thought it would be funny or more worrying wanted to hurt our business. Read More Man on fishing trip with pals left seething after armed officers hunting for Redruth robbers fail to apologise for stopping him at gunpoint 
“Sadly, this cowardly action hurts our team the most, a team of individuals who care deeply about the quality of the service they provide and were extremely proud of the five star rating they achieved. 
“If you are the person who paid for this to happen, please take a long hard look at yourself in the mirror and grow up.” The management at WAX were concerned the reviews could harm business 
WAX manager Sam Karkeek contacted the Facebook advertisement team in the hope that they would acknowledge the attack and remove the negative reviews. 
He said: “Facebook acted fast and removed the reviews. Hopefully that is the total amount paid for, and no more should flood in. We are now back to our original 4.9 score. 
“Thank you everyone who left a review, shared this post or sent us a lovely message. It means the world to us all. 
“If you can take anything away from this it’s how important it is to review and share positivity when you experience good service at a local business. 
“So please take the time to review some other businesses you have been impressed by. It means more than you know to them. Thank you again.” Like us on Facebook