Meet the man behind the Joburger Facebook page 2017-11-03 11:03 Hloni Magadla PHOTO: Facebook Joburger 
If you always thought people of different races in South Africa could never get along, then this Facebook page will definitely have you thinking differently. 
The page, called The Joburger, went viral recently for its ability to unite South Africans through laughter. 
The Joburger creates a platform where people of different races come together to ask one another silly questions , provide even sillier answers and celebrate different cultures. 
Louwrence van Niekerk, a 23-year old London-based South African, says he took a leap of faith when he created The Joburger. 
“I started the Facebook page when I was home one day because I didn’t like the office job I had. I decided to start a page and try to make a living out of that. When I started the page, I wasn’t really thinking about racism and stuff, I just wanted it to be fun and make people laugh,” Louwrence says. 
“Then I noticed things were starting to get rough and serious after the whole Black Monday racism saga, I thought to myself I needed to get people to talk to one another in a more positive and meaningful way instead of moaning about racism. And the responses were quite amazing.” 
Louwrence believes South Africans do want to unite and all it takes is people putting their differences aside. 
While everyone was still excited about the page, Louwrence added to the excitement by announcing that all the brilliant questions and insightful, hilarious answers South Africans of all races have been exchanging on The Joburger’s page will be turned into a book called SA Unite. 
We can’t wait to read all about it and fall off our chairs in fits of laughter. Read more on: joburger | facebook | race Join the conversation! 
24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24 . Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication. We reserve editorial discretion to decide what will be published. Read our comments policy for guidelines on contributions. NEXT ON NEWS24 X