North Country Now Facebook followers react to controversial social media remarks from county DA candidate, Massena supervisor   5:27 pm 
North Country Now’s Facebook page drew a variety of responses from readers following reports of controversial remarks on social media from two candidates who will be on the ballot next week. 
District Attorney candidate James Monroe took heat after screenshots surfaced from a comment thread in November where he allegedly said “Trump is a fascist and there is no god. Sorry your jesus is just a flaky imaginary piece of shit.” On Monday, Monroe held a press conference where he says he doesn’t recall making the remark, but accepts responsibility. More on that story is here . Monroe is running against Republican Gary Pasqua. 
Here are some comments North Country Now Facebook followers left on the Monroe story: 
"I respet [sic] his owning it and taking responsibility even if he doesn't recall it specifically. You got my vote now!!!!" Marcie Denise Sullivan-Marin wrote. 
"Knowing hes [sic] ripping on Jesus and Trump makes me want to vote for him more," Trevor McGrath wrote. 
"Not sure I want someone with such a poor memory in the DA’s office," Sue Bibbens Barkley wrote. 
"So let me break down what he said. I’ll take responsibility for saying it but it’s really Trumps [sic] fault," Dan LaBarge wrote. 
"I am glad that Mr. Monroe took responsibility for his actions. What saddens me is it took four days and a meeting with his team to do it. First of all, Mr. Monroe was a sitting Judge when these remarks were made. Second, it was the story of the people he offended to disclose not Mr. Monroe’s opponent. It takes a lot for a victim to come forth and make it public. As an Assistant District Attorney he should recognize that and stop blaming Mr. Pasqua. Mr. Monroe did get one thing right; Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, it is just too bad he didn’t recognize that a year ago. Mr. Monroe this whole mess is on you and only you," Kathleen M. Casey wrote. 
In an unrelated story, Massena Town Supervisor Joe Gray was the subject of controversy after screenshots surfaced of him on Facebook using the term “black privilege” in reference to NFL players kneeling during the National Anthem. More on that story is here . Gray is running for a third term against Democrat challenger Steven O’Shaughnessy. 
Here’s what North Country Now Facebook followers commented on that story: 
"I'm just confused by "black privilege" at all... What privileges do you really get by being black??" Jennifer Barney wrote. 
"To quote Jim Jefferies, ‘We can all do better,’" Joanne Martin wrote. 
"Privileged white people will never understand the hardships. Why do you think there is a catch phrase, ‘Driving while black’? We, as white people, need to get educated. There is no such a thing as black privilege. These athletes have worked their bums off to get to their esteemed position in sports. They had to overcome oppression just to obtain a spot on those teams. If you honestly believe there is such a thing as ‘black privilege’ then please, explain to me what they’re entitled to because of their skin tone? Police brutality?" Kat Prashaw wrote. 
"Wow. What's gone wrong with people? Noone [sic] can have an opinion on anything other than what is politically correct without being a racist. Free speech for the pc crowd, but not for anyone else. I thought the comment reflected the frustration of the people who don't watch NFL football over the take a knee thing going on. I don't watch football, never have except the superbowl [sic]. But back to the post...there was no threat, no N-word, what was racist? It's ok to claim white privelege [sic] on anyone white, but it's wrong to say black privelege [sic]? They are paid millions to play a sport. No matter, I'm sure my comment offended someone, we have become a nation of highly sensitive, overly correct people who feel anyone who doesn't think like us, are wrong and have no business using thier [sic] freedom of speech," Ed Cyr wrote. 
"I support that the man has every right to speak as he wishes on a personal social media page as there is a separate page as a representative ... however consider this sir... someone considering moving to this place even with the state is in and decided through conversation of discovering who represents the area and happens apon [sic] your page and sees, though by choice personal thoughts it in turn reflects what the rest of us are like…" Sarah Elizabeth wrote. Search NorthCountryNow.com