DailyMail Nov 6, 2017 United States 0 Views Share Google + A woman was left stunned when an advert showing a woman dressed in an identical outfit to her popped up on her phone. 
Jen Lewis, from Brooklyn , spotted the bra ad from Third Love featuring a model wearing a pair of pale blue skinny jeans and short-sleeved pink blouse. 
The writer and designer recreated the model’s pose and posted the near-identical pictures side-by-side on Twitter , where they have since gone viral with more than 20,000 likes. 
Jen wrote: ‘Uh, Facebook just served me a bra ad where a woman is wearing the outfit that I’m currently wearing.’ 
Uncanny: Jen Lewis, from Brooklyn, spotted this bra ad from Third Love featuring a model wearing a pair of pale blue skinny jeans and short-sleeved pink blouse identical to hers 
Her tweet attracted hundreds of comments from horrified social media users, with conspiracy theories abounding – and many suggested the ad could have been targeted using image recognition via Jen’s laptop or iPhone camera. 
MailOnline has contacted Facebook and Third Love for comment. 
Facebook is increasingly using sophisticated technology to bring users personalised or ‘targeted’ adverts; just last month it were forced to deny that the network ‘listens’ to users through their devices’ microphones. 
And earlier this year a patent suggesting that the firm wants to ‘spy’ on its users through their phone or computer cameras was discovered. 
Just a coincidence? Facebook is increasingly using sophisticated technology to bring users personalised or ‘targeted’ adverts 
Bizarre: The writer and designer recreated the model’s pose and shared the near-identical pictures side-by-side on Twitter , where they have since gone viral with more than 20,000 likes Amend your Facebook settings 
To find what Facebook and advertisers know about you, simply log into your Facebook account on a desktop. 
On the site, travel to the left hand side where you will see your name, ‘Edit Profile’, ‘Favorites’ and ‘Pages’. 
Under the section ‘Pages’, ‘Like Pages’ should be list. 
Click on this option and it will take you to another page that lists a range of suggests for you to choose from. 
At the top are three options – ‘Top Suggestions’, ‘Invites’ and ‘Like Pages’. 
Click on ‘Like Pages’ and you should be presented with every page you have ‘Liked’ since you became a Facebook member. 
Here you can unclick certain pages, so Facebook can serve you better ads. 
While some Twitter users claimed Jen’s experience was nothing more than a coincidence, others convinced that something sinister was at play with one person writing: ‘Get a cover for your camera. I’m not kidding.’ 
Another replied: ‘There is [artificial intelligence] to match clothes photos with [stock keeping units] and it works extremely well. So there’s actually a chance this is targeted.’ 
While Martin Smith quipped: ‘Are you sure you’re not in a bra ad right now?’ 
But some social media users insisted that Jen’s case was nothing more than a strange coincidence. 
‘Get a cover for your camera’: Twitter users warn against ‘targeted marketing’ 
Jen’s tweet attracted hundreds of comments from horrified social media users, with conspiracy theories abounding – and many suggesting the ad could have been targeted 
‘This is a coincidence’: Others weren’t so sure 
Not everyone was convinced, however, with one Twitter user known only as Matt S. insisting: ‘This is a coincidence. You can’t target [adverts] based on anything like that’