NYC man charged with producing child porn by using Facebook to direct the abuse November 9, 2017 tweet 
NEW YORK — A Queens man faces child exploitation charges following an investigation led by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) New York special agents with assistance from Interpol’s Crimes Against Children Unit. 
A criminal complaint against Keith Liwang, 26, was unsealed Thursday with the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York announcing the charges of conspiracy to produce child pornography. Liwang is alleged to have directed women on Facebook to abuse children and send him photographs of the abuse in exchange for cash. 
“This individual is alleged to have convinced women overseas to commit sexual acts with children in return for payment,” said Angel M. Melendez, special agent in charge of HSI New York. “His version of a ‘show,’ among other criminal acts against children, allegedly included enticing a mother to sexually abuse her own son for his pleasure. We will be relentless in our pursuit of child predators to ensure they face justice for their unfathomable acts.” 
“As alleged, the defendant victimized vulnerable children abroad by soliciting photographs and videos of their sexual abuse in exchange for money,” stated Acting United States Attorney Bridget M. Rohde. “The safety and protection of children is a priority for this Office and our law enforcement partners and we will pursue those who would endanger children to the fullest extent of the law.” 
According to the complaint, in September and October 2016, Liwanag used a Facebook account to direct women in the Philippines to engage in sexual acts with children in exchange for money, and to produce and send child pornography over Facebook’s private messaging service. On September 8, 2016, the defendant sent several messages to a woman asking her to sexually abuse a six-year-old boy as part of a “show” in exchange for money. On September 11, 2016, the defendant sent and received messages from another woman about a “show” with the woman’s son and offered her money to perform a sex act on him. On October 12, 2016, the defendant sent a message to a third woman soliciting photographs of the sexual abuse of her child. In response, on October 27, 2016, the woman sent the defendant two images depicting child abuse. As set forth in court filings, the evidence obtained during the course of the investigation includes 10 recorded video conferences between the defendant and women engaged in the sexual abuse of children. Facebook Comment