View This Page In Your Language Get Opportunities delivered to your Email! First name * Email * Mohamed Abozaid Egypt "I coincidentally discovered Opportunity Desk while surfing online for some courses. I applied and was selected for the 2014 UNAOC Forum in Bali, Indonesia. I went to Bali and met 100 of the best youth leaders and friends worldwide." Onyinye Nwaoma Nigeria "I learnt about the VSO-ICS program here. OD is undoubtedly the one stop place for up to date opportunities. Keep visiting this blog, keep maximizing these opportunities!" Melissa Cara Marie Toronto, Canada "Thank you to Opportunity Desk for making me aware of Women Deliver's three-year Young Leaders Fellowship and for prioritizing youth! Find what you are passionate about and follow it endlessly. It is always worth the risk." Qada Lawrence Ngbale Bolton, UK "I have been following Opportunity Desk and after so many missed opportunities I decided 2014 was it. I am now a ONE UK Youth Ambassador thanks to OD and my decision to seize the opportunity posted." Aldiona Kerri Albania "I would've never imagined that being selected as Young Person of the Month would inspire and change my life this way. Besides getting hundreds of messages from youth around the world, what surprised me most was..." Preeti Shakya Nepal OD proves to be very useful in bridging the gap between youths and growth opportunities for them Efeturi Odele (E'turi) Russia "International experiences are priceless.... the world is a book and those who do not travel, read only one page. Opportunity Desk has contributed to my international exposure and I encourage you all to key into the opportunities via the site." Chuks Enemchukwu Portland, USA "Access to opportunities is one of the biggest obstacles faced by many young change-makers today. OD has gone a long way to bridge this gap, and I encourage all passionate young people to join this group." Afsaneh Seifinaji Iran How can I say, thank you? Seriously? Opportunity Desk changed my life dramatically and I've introduced it to so many people in my country. Oliver Rieche Germany "OD is a fantastic resource for all those young people who want to get involved in their communities, who want to travel the world and who want to make a difference. I am glad I am part of the 'Opportunity Desk Family'." Alimlim Emmanuela Kenya "Thank you so much, I applied for the UNESCO Youth Multimedia competition and was selected as one of the finalists. Thank you for helping me put my dreams of empowering women and girls in action." Grace Ihejiamaizu Global Citizen "Every young person deserves a travel learning opportunity. The kind of programs and opportunities posted on Opportunity Desk are necessary for growth and progress." Kelebogile Simula Botswana "I was selected for the Women Deliver Young Leaders Program. I saw this opportunity here at Opportunity Desk. Thank you so much for all the amazing opportunities you share and for your inspiration." Akor Jackson Nigeria "Great job for all the posts. I made it through as one of the 20 Fellows for the Social Innovators Program & Awards 2014. I was also selexcted to attend the UN Youth Leadership Program in Berlin, Germany." Bwesigye Bwa Uganda " I am grateful to OD for the service they are rendering to us at no cost. This is a goldmine. " Wiem Askri Tunisia "I have been following OD for about two years now, and I'm really thankful to all the opportunities posted all the time - a lot of chances for everyone from around the world no matter what their interests are." Victoria Ibiwoye Nigeria "Opportunity Desk is a genuine organisation that helps young people become better citizens of the world! There are lots of ways to develop your leadership competence." Chapa Perera Sri Lanka "Thank you for being an amazing supporter for young people by bringing together these global opportunities." Berabose Aline Joyce Rwanda "There are amazing opportunities for young people who are committed to make a positive change in their community and in the world. Opportunity Desk is an excellent tool to find these life changing opportunities." Zaidat Ibrahim Boston, USA "Opportunities are like sunrise & Opportunity Desk serves as the alarm clock to ensure you don't wake up too late and miss out on the sunrise! Great work! Amazing team!" Vane Molly Moraa Kenya "I visit the Opportunity Desk from time to time to check out the great opportunities out there for young people. The success stories I have read on the page have taught me that there is no special ingredient for doing great things." Bernard Lim Singapore‬ "Selected as Singapore's delegate to the Youthful Cities Global Summit, I am enormously grateful to what could be the most enlightened, convenient, delightful platform that provides opportunities at my fingertips: Opportunity Desk!" Mohammad Abu Sufian Bangladesh OD actually changed my life by helping me go abroad for the first time to attend an international conference. I am happy 😊 to be connected with the world of Opportunity Desk. Sunny Ibeh Jnr Nigeria "Opportunity Desk is a fabulous platform that makes dreamers achievers. Missing out is missing a whole lot of opportunities. Your life can only be transformed when you are aptly informed!" Zar Nigor Pakistan Thank you, Opportunity Desk, for providing the best opportunities accessible to young leaders who really strive to make a difference. Angélique Pouponneau Seychelles "I was awarded the All Bar None Scholarship to attend the One Young World Summit 2014 in Dublin, Ireland. Thanks for all the great work with informing everyone about opportunities." Akaki Chalatashvili Georgia "...amazing work. Thank you for such a good initiative to provide opportunities to all of us." Nordine Mohammedi Algeria "Opportunity Desk is a window of opportunities that offers a bright hope for a better future. OD helped me discover opportunities and take part in programs that I would not have heard about without the platform." Edidiong Umoh Nigeria "I've applied for a lot of the opportunities here. It was so discouraging at some point when I wasn't successful, but I've now been awarded full scholarship to attend Women Deliver conference in Denmark. Glad I didn't give up. Thanks to OD" Jacqui Joseph Papua New Guinea "I owe credit to OD for my selection into the Global Change Leaders Program. Keep track of posts presented here as it is a great way to stay informed about the amazing opportunities that you may be a part of. "