An Ohio Supreme Court justice who is running for governor has volunteered candid details of his sexual past on Facebook, saying he was "speaking for all heterosexual males" in taking a swipe at the "media frenzy" over sexual misconduct. 
Democrat William O'Neill's post was immediately attacked as inappropriate and led to calls for his ousting. 
In it, he wrote that he has been "sexually intimate with approximately 50 very attractive females," including "a gorgeous blonde" with whom he "made passionate love" in a hay loft and a "drop dead gorgeous red head" from Cleveland. 
After posting the message, he edited it to remove some identifying information about the women. 
Justice O'Neill, 70, said the details provided were true and he was trying to make a point. 
"It's a matter of parody suggesting that, as a governor candidate, I assume I am the next target of the media frenzy," he said. 
"So I figure let's just get it out here on Front Street right here and now," he added, referring to the street where the Supreme Court building sits. 
Chief Justice Maureen O'Connor, the first woman to lead Ohio's highest court, immediately condemned the post. 
"No words can convey my shock," she said in a statement. 
"This gross disrespect for women shakes the public's confidence in the integrity of the judiciary." 
All other Democrats seeking the governorship — former US representative Betty Sutton, Dayton Mayor Nan Whaley, former state representative Connie Pillich and state Senator Joe Schiavoni — called for Justice O'Neill to resign, saying he was trivialising the issue. 
"As an attorney, I'm appalled at these remarks of a Supreme Court Justice," Ms Sutton said. 
"As a Democrat, I'm horrified a statewide candidate would belittle victims of sexual harassment and assault this way. 
"And, as a woman, I'm outraged he would equate sexual assault with indiscretion." 
Only a day earlier, Ms Sutton unveiled a plan to combat sexual harassment and sexual assault in state government, where two lawmakers have recently resigned amid sexual misconduct allegations. 
Justice O'Neill's campaign spokesman has resigned over the Facebook post. 
The post drew thousands of comments, reactions and shares on Facebook and was a trending topic on Twitter, drawing mostly negative reaction but some positive comments. 
Justice O'Neill said the Facebook post grew out of frustration over calls to remove Al Franken , a Minnesota US senator and former Saturday Night Live performer, from the US Senate. 
Senator Franken has been forced to say sorry over a picture which showed him groping a newsreader's breasts while she was asleep on aircraft carrier. 
"When a United States senator commits a non-criminal act of indiscretion; and when it is brought to his attention he immediately has the integrity to apologise; and the apology is accepted by the victim: IT IS WRONG for the dogs of war to leap onto his back and demand his resignation from the United States Senate," Justice O'Neill wrote on Facebook, following up on similar remarks he made earlier. 
"It is morally wrong." 
He suggested calls to remove Senator Franken were part of a "feeding frenzy" and said his critics should "lighten up, folks." 
But many critics were particularly offended that Justice O'Neill claimed to be "speaking for all heterosexual males." 
"Newsflash: no one asked how many notches you have on your belt," the Republican National Committee's Ellie Hockenbury wrote in an email. 
"The so-called 'national feeding frenzy' is about empowering victims of sexual assault or harassment who've been afraid to speak up; it's not an opportunity to brag about your sexual conquests through the years." 
AP