Have you seen any good news about the President on your Facebook "news" feed lately? 
Didn't think so. 
That's because, on November 8, 2017, one year to the day after Trump won, Facebook took out one of the most popular Pro-Trump blogs on the internet. Danny Gold and Paris Swade run Liberty Writers, at least they did. 
I know this because they were one of my best hosting customers. I hosted their website. 
Facebook took down Liberty Writers, The Lutchman Report, and several other Facebook Pages including Trump Daily. I hosted a few other websites called Swamp Drain and Dan Sessions but they didn't have a Facebook Page directly just domains and a knack for finding some of the funniest things related to Trump's opponents I have ever seen. 
Altogether these pages had about 4 million followers. Many of them were paid for by my customers, or so I have heard. 
Danny Gold and Paris Swade creators Liberty Writers Pro-Trump Superheros, Villans to the Radical Alt-Left 
I know them all because I hosted their websites. 
Mark Lutchman Pro-Trump Blogger Today I am left with a garage filled with servers and no websites to host. After Facebook took down the Facebook Pages I had no choice but to vacate my datacenters. And yes, the websites are still up and running, but without traffic, I make no money because I was paid for usage... 
It cost money to host a website. I charged a fair price and made a business of being willing to host high volume Pro-Trump blogs. Today, I am paying the price. My business is ruined. 
I believe Facebook hates Christians. 
I believe Facebook hates Conservatives. 
And most of all... I believe Facebook hates our President, President Donald J. Trump. 
Facebook made all of this clear to me with their actions on November 8, 2017, when they took down the only American Owned and Operated pro-Trump blogs on the internet. 
The sad truth is, the Russians still have their sites, the Macedonians still have their sites, it only seems to be a problem if you are an American, talking about American politics and you are not going out of your way to attack President Trump. 
Mark Zuckerberg, you are an evil, EVIL man! He talks about giving people the power to share. It seems Mark Zuckerberg only means what he says about sharing for people who want to be in his soup line. 
After all, it was Mark Zuckerberg that said he wants to pay for "Universal Basic Income." Another word for that is Communism. 
I am coming to get Facebook and the rest of Silicon Valley. Please, vote for me in the upcoming election. One way or another we are Taking Our Country Back. 
All Facebook really did was put a whole lot of people who do their part out of job; just because they want to Make America Great Again. 
All we have left is Fake News from Russia, Macedonia, and of course, the Lying Main Stream Media.