Share on Facebook A heartbroken British man has cried out after his wife of 23 years left him and their nine children for a Gambian man she met on Facebook. The 44-year-old man identified as Andy Hepworth explained that his wife left him for a 30-year-man identified as Mamadou Jallow after she started chatting with strangers on social media. In an interview with The Sun UK, the man claimed that his 44-year-old wife, Heidi Hepworth, was going through midlife crisis. He noted that she asked him for a divorce and told him her future was with Mamadou. Hepworth revealed that his wife had a makeover, adding that she also gave herself tattoos. Oyinbo woman leaves husband and 9 children for Gambian lover she met on Facebook Photo Source: The Sun UK READ ALSO : Nigerian man marries 3 women at once in Delta The man explained that his wife took her first trip out of the United Kingdom to Gambia in October leaving their nine children behind to start a life with the Gambian man. He said: “It’s a midlife crisis. She started going to the gym, booking sunbeds, getting tattoos and wearing dresses. The person she has become is horrible. She was a loving, caring mum. Now it’s like an alien has possessed her body. He has brainwashed her. It’s one big fantasy for her and she is following it through step by step.” Hepworth revealed that his wife had a makeover, adding that she also gave herself tattoos Photo Source: The Sun UK The heartbroken husband who expressed that the experience felt like his heart had been ripped out noted that the marriage was over because he doesn’t believe a caring mother would leave her kids to have fun with her boyfriend. Hepworth said: “It felt like my heart had been ripped out. I loved her. We were always a rock solid. But I think it’s over. She’s said and done too much. A caring mum wouldn’t go off gallivanting around Africa with her new boyfriend.” The couple who has been together for 23 years met in the 1990s Photo Source: The Sun UK The couple who had been together for 23 years met in the 1990s. They had six kids together and three others from Heidi’s previous marriage. Who cheats more in a relationship, the man or the woman? - on NAIJ.com TV