Parents Terrified By Teacher's Weekend Facebook Post, Keep Kids Home On Monday   
A school teacher in Pennsylvania freaked out parents in her school with a single Facebook post he made on Saturday. After parents started sharing the post with each other, some 60 of them didn't feel safe sending their kids to school the next day. Kids who did show up were kept inside instead of being let out for recess. The teacher is under investigation. 
The unnamed teacher who worked at the Brentwood School District in Pittsburgh went online and freaked everyone out with a post announcing that she was buying a gun. It was the way the message came out that had a lot of people concerned, though. 
On a rainbow background, the teacher wrote the message, "I'm going shopping sat. Who wants to go. I'm buying a gun. Watch out world. Hahahaha." 
A quarter of the students in the school failed to show up the day after the post came out and the rest of the students were kept inside for the day. The school also notified the police. 
No word on what prompted the teacher to make the post, or why it was taken so seriously. The district is conducting an investigation and promises to keep parents updated on the results. A letter went home to students who showed up the day after the threats were made. 
"We assure you that the District safety plan was followed. The appropriated Borough authorities were notified, and the Director of School Police and the Superintendent reported to Moore to assist the Moore School Principal as students entered the building," wrote the Superintendent in the letter. "You will be kept apprised as circumstances warrant. Rest assured, the District takes these types of situations very seriously and remains committed to the safety of our students and staff as our first priority." 
With all the mass shootings in the world these days, many of which have taken place in schools, it’s not exactly prudent for any teacher to joke about buying a gun, particularly when the comment is accompanied by phrases like ‘watch out world’ and an attempt at maniacal laughter. It’s hard to believe that any serious teacher with a level head would post something on Facebook that comes off more like a threat than a joke. 
Tensions are especially high these days after the Las Vegas massacre, in which a lone gunman opened fired from a hotel room on concertgoers on the Las Vegas strip. There seemed to be no real motive behind the murderous actions of shooter Stephen Paddock, who is believed to have been suffering from a mental illness. 
Paddock killed 58 people and injured 546, making it the deadliest mass shooting in history. 
School shootings are, unfortunately, nothing new. The worst in recent memory occurred at Virginia Tech in 2007. Seung-Hui Cho, a mentally disturbed young man, opened fire on the campus of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and killed 32 people, including himself. 
Photo: Google, Brentwood School District Tell Us What You Think