Parents lash out at Crispin School Facebook post which claims students' success is related to quality of shoes 1 Facebook post, 24 hours, over one hundred reactions Share Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
A recent Facebook post on the Crispin School 's page has caused a lot of aggravation amongst parents and other Facebook users. 
And it is all about school shoes (and how they define us). 
The school's post said: "It has become apparent that those students with the strongest academic progress are ‘sharply’ dressed. Those students achieving are wearing the correct footwear. 
"Admittedly, some students would have reached for the polish had they known their feet would be under the spotlight but the correlation between success, doing the right things and being helpful students is a strong one." 
The school posted this "link between success and footwear" with pictures of students' shoes "with a nod to Street's history" 
Within minutes, the first comments appeared calling it a "pile of rubbish". Almost every comment was liked or agreed with. 
While one simply stated "Correlation does not imply causation". 
Another looked at what the causation could actually be, saying: "Perhaps there is a more subtle implication here in that the parents of these students insist they wear proper shoes and provide clear boundaries at home and encourage the kids to take pride in themselves." 
But mostly, users were outraged by the statement saying the post is "pure snobbery" . Would these be seen as shoes of "unsuccessful students"? 
Another, who said her daughter's shoes were pictured as a good example wrote: "By all means focus on academic achievement, cultural strengths, community spirit etc "But to do so via the choice of footwear - a choice of their parents, surely, and one which actually reflects disposable income more than hard work - trivialises what these young people have done." 
One former Crispin student told his own story of school uniforms: 
"As a Crispin alumini, I'm incredibly insulted by this. I come from a relatively less well off family. I could not afford the smartest shoes, or the best shoes, or any other smart piece of uniform. 
"My tie was never perfect, I always wore dolly shoes from Primark, and I barely had my shirt tucked in. 
"But I made great friends and despite how bad I may have looked, I received 12 GCSES and went on to Strode College where I received 4 As Levels and a BTEC. I am now a university student and I'm a student that will graduate with honours. 
"So, Crispin, you can take your shiny £40 Clarkes shoes and shove it. 
"And to the students reading this, it makes no difference if you're poor or rich, fat or thin, clever or not. 
"Use what you have to get you to the best place you can possibly be. You're doing great. Keep rocking s*** shoes kids." (Image: Getty) 
Some Facebook users have asked the school for an apology, or to take the post down. 
The head teacher was personally addressed by one person, who said: "Do you think the families of those struggling to make ends meet and get food on the table need to have it endorsed that their children are at a disadvantage? 
"Do you think the parents who are perhaps struggling with long term illnesses, who may not be able to get to the shops so easily need to be told that they're failing their children? Your job is to nurture and support these children not bloody isolate them!" 
Somerset Live contacted Crispin School today, Friday November 24, but the head teacher has chosen not to comment. 
In the meantime, comments keep appearing calling the post "utterly ridiculous", "bloody stupid" and "a load or rubbish" and parents are complaining about the priorities the school seems to set. 
One mother said: "I’m fuming, my daughter has come home in floods of tears tonight having been harassed about her shoes." 
How do you feel about this post? Have you had experience with school uniform issues? We would love to hear from you. Email claire.herbaux@localworld.co.uk Like us on Facebook