I t’s been five years in the making, but musician, actor and critically acclaimed director Plan B is back with a new record and a rather different look. To celebrate his big comeback – and in honour of Old Fashioned Week this week – we took him on an Old Fashioned masterclass with a Wild Turkey mixologist and talked everything from his upcoming album, Heaven Before All Hell Breaks Loose , and where he's been, to politics, conspiracy theories and the 2011 London riots.
Whether on the subject of power ("Most of the prime ministers we have, they get corrupted as soon as they get the job and end up breaking all their promises") or projects even further in the future than Heaven Before All Hell Breaks Loose (“I like the idea of there being an Ill Manors Netflix television series one day”), Plan B, aka Ben Drew, has plenty to say. Check out the highlights below.
Advertisement Plan B is live! Ask him questions about his comeback over an Old Fashioned cocktail
Posted by British GQ on Thursday, November 9, 2017 What he’s been doing the past five years...
Read next People Just Do Nothing: ‘We have been the Best Garage Act every year since 2004’ People Just Do Nothing: ‘We have been the Best Garage Act every year since 2004’ The People Just Do Nothing crew on winning GQ Garage Act Of The Year 2017.
By Charlie Burton
"I’ve been in London, strolling the streets and that. I just keep a low profile. I’ve been running a charity and I’ve been dipping my fingers in various projects that are in the pipeline. Being creative in ways other than music. Before, I was doing carnage every night, that’s how I got so big. Every night was drinking, drinking, madness... I never invested anything into the celebrity lifestyle. I never had any preconceptions, I was always quite realistic. [But] anyone who’s out partying that much, working and travelling as much as I was... I had no roots, there was nothing real in my life. Everything was quite empty; a lot of my relationships were quite empty. The people I grew up with, the people that I cared about the most are the people I became most distant from. You wake up one day and can’t remember who you are. At that point I needed to reconnect in a spiritual sense with who I was. I don’t mean religion, I mean going and meeting friends from my old school – that became a spiritual experience for me because I was so detached. The things that I’ve been through since 2012 until now, nothing gets more spiritual than that. [Becoming a father] can’t help but change you."
Advertisement Why he decided to make his comeback now
"I’m going to be 40 soon. You can’t be 40, fat, bald and rapping on stage. So I think there’s definitely at least one more hip-hop album you’ve got to get out of me. So I needed to get this album out of the way so that I have time to release that album before my hair falls out ."
Plan B is live again!
Posted by British GQ on Thursday, November 9, 2017 Advertisement Read next Confessions of a rock’n’roll biographer Confessions of a rock’n’roll biographer For almost 40 years, Philip Norman has wrestled with icons, egos and artists (not to mention their widows) to reveal the untold tales of Britain's musical takeover.
By Philip Norman
Why there's no rap on Heaven Before All Hell Breaks Loose
"There’s no rap on the new album because I feel that I’m not being honest with myself if I’m living the high life and I’m trying to rap about the other side of things. Hip hop is an expression of your environment, it’s always been that. I’ve called the album Heaven Before All Hell Breaks Loose because I’ve been living in a perpetual state of heaven on earth. I’ve been living in my own little bubble, and I know that when the album drops it will feel, personally for me, that all hell is breaking loose. It didn’t feel like I was being honest if I was going to sit there and rap about living on the streets and how hard life is when my life is not like that. For me, that’s selling out; I can’t do that. So I had to write about the state I’ve been feeling, and through doing that the world has completely changed – it feels like all hell is about to break loose when we look at once going on socially and politically."
On the biggest threat facing humanity
"It’s ego. The people in control happen to be the two biggest brats that ever lived – I mean Trump and the North Korean leader [Kim Jong-un]. Their very public spats, like a 'who’s got the biggest willy?' competition – it’s scary as hell. How do you reason with a child? And they’re both children. Certain things happened that we didn’t understand, certain votes that no one saw coming. I’m hearing, 'The Russians have been messing with social media and putting out fake news,' and I’m like, 'Is this true? Or is that conspiracy theory?' But it’s not that hard to believe right now. Anything could happen right now. The world we’re living in doesn’t feel real. It’s like we’ve gone back to the Eighties, with the rise of racist organisations and people being so brazenly prejudice and outwardly racist, and it seeming like it’s acceptable since Trump got in power. I can’t believe I’m living in this climate."
Plan B has almost finished making his drink (sorry for connection issues)
Posted by British GQ on Thursday, November 9, 2017 Read next Man Booker Prize winner George Saunders talks to Jason Isbell Man Booker Prize winner George Saunders talks to Jason Isbell