<> Posts produced in Russia reach 126 million Facebook users in US Facebook said 126 million American users may have seen content uploaded by Russia-based operatives over the past two years 14:35, 31 October 2017 ReadWrite 
One of social network site said that about 80,000 posts were produced before and after the 2016 presidential election. Most of the posts focused on divisive social and political messages. This was reported by BBC News . 
Facebook released figures ahead of the hearing in Senate where, together with Twitter and Google will tell the details about Russia's impact on the popular sites. Russia has repeatedly denied allegations that it attempted to influence the last US presidential election, in which Donald Trump won over Hillary Clinton. 
In a separate development, an investigation by independent counsel Robert Mueller into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia produced its first charges against two former aides. It also emerged that a third former aide had pleaded guilty in early October to lying to the FBI. 
President Trump has denied allegations of collusion with Moscow, and has repeatedly called on Mrs Clinton to be investigated. 
Facebook says some 80,000 posts were published between June 2015 and August 2017 and were seen by about 29 million Americans directly, according to a draft of prepared remarks seen by US media ahead of Tuesday's Senate judiciary committee hearing. 
These posts, which Facebook says were created by a Kremlin-linked company, were amplified through likes, shares and comments and spread to tens of millions more people. Facebook also said it had deleted 170 Instagram accounts, which posted about 120,000 pieces of content. 
"These actions run counter to Facebook's mission of building community and everything we stand for," wrote Facebook's general counsel Colin Stretch. 
"And we are determined to do everything we can to address this new threat." Related: Court puts Manafort, his business partner Gates under house arrest 
In a blog post from earlier this month, Facebook's Elliot Schrage said that many of the posts did not violate the company's content policies. They were removed, he said, because they were inauthentic - the Russians behind the posts did not identify themselves as such. 
As it was reported earlier the former campaign chairman for President Donald Trump Paul Manafort has surrendered to the U.S. federal authorities on October 30. 
The information that Paul Manafort would be indicted appeared last Friday. Today Mr. Manafort walked into the F.B.I.’s field office in Washington at about 8:15 a.m. with his lawyer. 
Previously Manafort was under investigation for violations of federal tax law, money laundering and whether he appropriately disclosed his foreign lobbying. conspiracy against the United States, conspiracy to launder money, false and misleading FARA statements, false statements, and seven counts of failure to file reports of foreign bank and financial accounts. None of the charges, however, mention his part in meddling in the presidential election by Russia.