Map: Brisbane 4000 
Environmental issues such as the Adani mine in central Queensland get so much attention on Facebook because there are organised campaigns able to mobilise its supporters at a moment's notice, a social media expert says. 
It comes as the environment, and more specifically the Adani mine, top an ABC Brisbane Facebook poll of top priority issues this election. 
More than 2,000 people have had their say in the poll since Tuesday morning. 
It asked participants to choose their priority issue for the November 25 state election out of cost of living, infrastructure, jobs, environment, energy, or other. 
By Wednesday afternoon the result was clear — the majority of people who responded were putting the environment first and foremost. 
The hundreds of comments made it even clearer that the Adani mine is weighing heavily on their minds. 
Queensland University of Technology's social media analyst Professor Axel Bruns said he was not surprised to see environment top the poll. 
"What you also get with these sorts of polls is the more organised campaigns perhaps being able to motivate their participants to respond and highlight a particular issue," he said. 
"It's certainly an issue that lends itself particularly well to social mobilisation via social media. 
"So you might also get a mobilisation affect here you might not get with more mundane topics that people don't feel quite as strongly about." 
Professor Bruns said campaigns such as the one to stop the Adani mine in central Queensland were no strangers to using social media to their advantage. External Link: ABC Brisbane on Facebook: what matters to you 
"There have been organised campaigns for and against the Adani mine, for and against greater policy issues like climate change, protecting the Barrier Reef … so there's a very organised community out there that cares very deeply about this issue and have been using social media to organise around this as well," Professor Bruns said. 
"Whereas let's say changes to tax incentives for small business … that may not necessarily be an issue that can attract similarly-large groups of people to participate in polls and give feedbacks." 
Griffith University's School of Government and International Relations Dr Tracey Arklay said Adani was a complicated issue in Queensland. 
"I think Adani is a key issue that really talks about how complicated politics are in a state like Queensland," she said. 
"You've got the south-east where people are concerned about water quality, climate change, the impact of a mine like that on the Great Barrier Reef, and in the north you've got people really threatened by no jobs and it's really big issue for them. 
"There's a decline in the number of mining jobs so it's a really polarising issue." 
"I'm not saying people in north Queensland don't care about the environment but when unemployment is such a factor and you've got your family to feed you've got to think about that. What you had to say: Environment Video: An anti-coal protester interrupts the Premier's election announcement (ABC News) 
"If Adani coal wants to mine, they need to cover their costs, and pay FULL royalty." - Michael Hickey 
"Land clearing and Adani, how are we supposed to protect native wildlife when farmers are clearing at such crazy rates. plus adani risks the jobs of thousands on the reef..our future needs a healthy environment or were all screwed." - Shaun Adams 
"Adani project must not go ahead. It doesn't make economic sense nor does the track record of Adani make it a firm which should be supported by government subsidies or tax breaks." - Robert Soltys Jobs 
"Jobs, so many places in QLD are hurting. But that does not mean we should sell out to foreign oil companies that will bring barely any jobs and cost more then it's worth." - Matt Doby Photo: Employment was a top issue with 12 per cent of poll participants. (ABC News: Nic MacBean) 
"Underemployment and the fudging of unemployment figures! Nobody can live on 1 hour's work per week. I know it's a federal issue but I get annoyed hearing the Premier say how the Government has brought down unemployment. She never mentions how many are underemployed." - Jenny Billo 
"Jobs is the key. If you have a job cost of living and energy become less of an issue and there is more money for infrastructure. Without a job it is depressing misery ..." - Darryl Turner Cost of living 
"The cost of living; state govt bulk water charges, % of electricity bill going towards state government coffers, the astronomical price of rego... the list goes on. There's only so many dollars in my pay packet." - Ella James Infrastructure Photo: The M1, between Gold Coast and Brisbane, has been plagued by traffic problems for years. (AAP: Dave Hunt) 
"Roads - the highways are choked - State Government has been asleep at the wheel - we need a #SECONDM1 ASAP." - Dave Evans 
"Infrastructure fix the road and rail network, sort out public transport, it will all create jobs, more renewables will create jobs, and it might get us cheaper power. KISS it's not rocket science." - Ron Beere Other 
"Health and strengthening our public health care system is the most important issue for me when deciding how I will vote at this State Election." - Peter Nisbet 
"Protect our children from ongoing family violence while maintaining ensuring a tougher zero tolerance approach to all violence." - Cathy Prendergast 
"Respect for life from conception to natural death. Abortion and euthanasia, and the cesspit of Safe Schools." - Chris Julian Raphael 
"More resources channeled into education and tafe please and protect the reef from more pollution and damage." - Donna Schabe