Red-faced hospital chiefs delete Facebook post about Jeremy Hunt's visit after staff brand him an 'idiot' Southmead Hospital faced a backlash after the Health Secretary's trip to Bristol - in which he was also ambushed by angry protesters
 Share Comments By Dan Bloom Political reporter Tristan Cork 14:31, 26 NOV 2017 Updated 14:33, 26
Jeremy Hunt with staff at Southmead Hospital - but a post about the visit was later taken down (Image: NorthBristolNHS/Twitter) Red-faced NHS hospital chiefs deleted a Facebook post celebrating Jeremy Hunt's visit after staff branded the Tory an "idiot".
Southmead Hospital triggered a backlash after the Health Secretary's trip to Bristol - in which he was also ambushed by protesters.
One activist jumped on Mr Hunt's car bonnet outside a branch of Tesco during the demo, organised by Unison and Protect the NHS.
The Cabinet minister took a tour last Thursday of Southmead, but many staff knew nothing of the visit until he left.
Read More Budget pledges extra £1.6 billion for NHS next year but it's less than half what health service chief asked for The North Bristol NHS Trust then posted several photos of Mr Hunt on Facebook, adding it was "proud to welcome" him for a "passionate talk on challenging staff", the Bristol Post reported.
In a double blow, the Tory Health Secretary's car was also ambushed by protesters (Image: LNP) One woman climbed on his bonnet holding a placard that said: "Boo!" (Image: LNP) One fuming staff member, William Quick, wrote in the comments section: "If he wants it to be the best and safest healthcare system worldwide he needs to give us adequate funding and pay."
He added: "I reckon most staff are with me in being more disgusted than proud in having him foisted on us for a photo opportunity."
David Quote: : “The best way this idiot can improve pt (patient) safety is to resign or dramatically increase funding."
The commenter added a warning to senior staff: "You’re letting the side down. Don’t dance with the Devil."
A Facebook post by the hospital trust left staff grumbling (Image: Southmead Hospital) As more comments from outraged staff members flowed in, hospital bosses decided to delete the post altogether.
A spokeswoman for the North Bristol NHS Trust said: "Generally we encourage conversation on our social media feeds.
"But some of the comments were not appropriate for a Facebook page for a hospital which is intended for staff, patients and members of the local community to find out more about the work we do, which is why we took the difficult decision to remove the post."
Mr Hunt also visited the nearby Callington Road psychiatric hospital, and the protest - which was not linked to Southmead - happened near there.
The Health Secretary fell out with thousands of junior doctors after forcing through new contracts following a bitter dispute and unprecedented strikes.
Chancellor Philip Hammond announced £2.8billion of extra resource funding for the NHS in his Budget but it was well short of the £4bn demanded by the head of the NHS, Simon Stevens.
 Conservative Party Cabinet Tesco NHS Jeremy Hunt Hospitals Politics