Twitter By Drew Angerer/Getty Images. For weeks, Silicon Valley behemoths have been coordinating Capitol Hill charm offenses and doing last-minute damage control in anticipation of testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee about the extent to which Russian operatives weaponized their platforms in the 2016 election. And on Tuesday, lawyers from Google, Facebook, and Twitter at long last convened in Washington, D.C., where most committee members asked them granular, easily fielded questions about targeted advertising. Louisiana Sen. John Kennedy took a different tack, laying into a Facebook executive and eventually forcing him to admit that the tech giant can’t possibly be aware of all of its advertisers. “I think you do enormous good, but your power sometimes scares me,” Kennedy told all three companies’ representatives, before turning his attention to Facebook’s general counsel, Colin Stretch. “How many advertisers does Facebook have?” Kennedy asked, to which Stretch replied that Facebook has about 5 million advertisers a month. (It’s worth noting that, of the three representatives at Tuesday’s hearing, Stretch answered the brunt of the questions; Twitter acting general counsel Sean Edgett and Google Law Enforcement and Information Security Director Richard Salgado tended to offer up responses that roughly translated to “same here.”). “The truth of the matter is you have 5 million advertisers that change every month . . . You don’t have the ability to know who every one of those advertisers is,” Kennedy said to Stretch. “Of course, the answer is no,” Stretch replied. “Did China run ads in the last election cycle, that tried to impact our election?” Kennedy asked. “Not that I’m aware of,” Stretch replied. “Did Turkmenistan?” Kennedy shot back. “How could you be aware? I mean . . . you’ve got 5 million advertisers . . . And you’re going to tell me that you’re able to trace the origin of all of those advertisements? If I want to hire a lawyer, if I wanted to hire you when you were in private practice, you have an incredible résumé, and . . . I want to go through four or five shell corporations, because I want to hide my identity. You’re telling me you have the ability to . . . trace through all of these corporations and find the true identity of every one of your advertisers. You’re not telling me that, are you?” Eventually, Stretch gave in: “To your question about seeing essentially behind the platform to understand if there are shell corporations, of course the answer is no,” he said. “We cannot see behind the activity.” “Do you have a profile on me?” Kennedy continued, switching gears. “Senator, if you’re a Facebook user, we would permit you to be targeted with an advertisement based on your characteristics and your likes, along with other people who share similar characteristics,” Stretch replied. “You can’t put a name to a face to a piece of data?” Kennedy asked. “You’re telling me that?” “We have designed our systems to prevent exactly that, to protect the privacy of our users,” Stretch replied. As more information has come to light regarding the role Facebook, Twitter, and Google played in Russian attempts to sway the election, lawmakers and users alike have grown increasingly wary of the once-beloved companies. But written testimony from all three companies seemed aimed at assuaging those fears, revealing heretofore private stats and indicating that all are willing to be more transparent moving forward. Tuesday’s testimony comprised the first of three public hearings related to Russia-linked activity on the companies’ platforms—the hearings are set to continue on Wednesday. Share