Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about Facebook Russian Facebook ads meant to stir dissension in the U.S. This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Post to Facebook A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 3 To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Russian Facebook ads meant to stir dissension in the U.S. None This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook This is one of the Russian Facebook ads intended to stir dissension in the U.S. Facebook Like this topic? You may also like these photo galleries: Replay