Russian operatives targeted users on Facebook Inc. by race, political preference, religion and interests such as gun ownership, according to advertising data released by lawmakers on Wednesday as part of congressional investigations into Russian manipulation on social media around the U.S. election.
“Back the Badge,” for example, ran an ad meant to reach the wives of police officers, sheriffs and pages memorializing killed officers that was seen more than 1.3 million times. “Woke Blacks,” another page created by Russians tied to the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency, promoted its page among people who are interested in “African-American culture” and the civil-rights movement. That ad was seen more than 750,000 times. Both were paid for in rubles.
Read: House committee releases messages Russia designed to divide Americans 
Also see: Apple’s Tim Cook warns of divisive effect of fake news 
Lawmakers also released the Twitter Inc. account names for the 2,752 accounts linked to the Internet Research Agency. Many of the handles appeared to impersonate famous politicians, political parties and news agencies, in an attempt to appear credible, such as @_GeorgeSchultz_, @tpartynews, @NewYorkDem and @TheTimesOfLondn.
The new data, released by representatives on the House Intelligence Committee, show the sophistication of the Russian effort to hit precise groups of people to amplify specific, simmering tensions within the U.S. While Facebook FB, +1.44% and Twitter TWTR, -0.05% have said in congressional hearings this week that the ads by Russian-linked accounts made up just a small percent of election-related content on their sites, the ads demonstrate how the Russian effort spread far beyond political campaigns and across issues as wide-ranging as immigration, police brutality and religion.
An expanded version of this report appears on WSJ.com. 
Also popular on WSJ.com: 
Disney lays down the law for theaters on ‘Star Wars: The Last Jedi.’ 
Trump to tap Jerome Powell as next Fed chairman.