Fake Facebook accounts linked to Russia published about 80,000 posts ‘to influence US politics’ More As many as 126 million Americans may have been exposed to Russia-linked content and adverts on Facebook in the run-up to the 2016 U.S. presidential election, Facebook has admitted. The figure is far higher than previous estimates, with up to 80,000 posts believed to have been uploaded to the network by Russia-linked operatives, according to Reuters. The figures were revealed by Facebook before an appearance at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, which aims to assess the Kremlin’s influence on the election. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Files More Russian operatives were behind adverts focusing on controversial issues such as gun control, or showing images of Hillary Clinton behind bars. MORE: Vet charged with animal cruelty for ‘keeping sick dog alive after owner told it was put down’ Russia-linked accounts also created Facebook events in America focusing on divisive issues such as police killings. One of the fake Facebook pages run out of Russia organized a Philando Castile rally in Minnesota, turning out some 300 people – the largest such rally uncovered thus far: https://t.co/hZ63TnS9lT pic.twitter.com/tHc9mYGWRY 
— Casey Michel (@cjcmichel) October 31, 2017 ' @TEN_GOP was one of the top influencers in spreading the #Berkeley hashtag last April.' https://t.co/C2wZMzWtYv 
— Casey Michel (@cjcmichel) October 25, 2017 Facebook’s general counsel Colin Stretch said: ‘These actions run counter to Facebook’s mission of building community and everything we stand for.’ ‘And we are determined to do everything we can to address this new threat.’ Russia has denied any wrongdoing. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg More Previous reports suggested that Russian operatives used a Facebook tool to identify people who might be susceptible to propaganda adverts – then bombarded them with ads such as an image of Hillary Clinton behind bars. The alleged operatives created convincing-looking websites which focused on issues such as immigration and Islam – then used Facebook’s ‘retargeting’ tool to track who visited them. Users who visited them were targeted with adverts such as a black woman ‘dry firing’ a rifle. Reblog