Senate Intelligence Committee reveals Russians used Facebook to create 'battle in the streets' in America Russians used Facebook to push 'battle in the streets' in America  14 AM 
They're just a bunch of ruble rousers. 
In a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing attended by lawyers from Facebook, Google and Twitter, lawmakers discussed how Russians sought to incite violence between Americans using services provided by the three tech titans. 
Chairman Richard Burr cited a May 21 rally in front of the Islamic Da'wah Center in Houston, Texas, titled "Stop Islamization of Texas" created by the Russia-linked Facebook page Heart of Texas and a counterprotest created by another Russian account called "Save Islamic Knowledge." Sen. Richard Burr charged that Facebook allowed the Russian-orchestrated event "Stop Islamization of Texas" and its equally artificial in origin counterprotest to happen on the streets of Houston, Texas. (@SenatorBurr/twitter) 
The result? People actually showed up, with those on the Confederate Flag-waving side yelling things at counterprotesters such as, "Show me your patriotism!" 
Russian front used fake Facebooks to promote anti-refugee event 
Worse, in the comments section on the "Stop Islamization of Texas" page leading up to the rally, Heart of Texas group members recommended showing up armed , while one person wrote, "Need to blow this place up. We don't need this s--- in Texas," though even now it's unclear who among the commenters were actually trolls. Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) (Aaron Bernstein/REUTERS) 
All told, the ads setting up the May 21, 2016, event cost just $200. 
"What neither side could have known was that Russian trolls were encouraging both sides to battle in the streets and create division between real Americans," said Burr on Wednesday . Russia backed Facebook and Instagram ads 
"Ironically, one person who attended stated, 'The Heart of Texas promoted this event, but we didn't see one of them. We now know why. It's hard to attend an event in Houston, Texas, when you're trolling from a site in St. Petersburg, Russia." 
Facebook says 126M users saw Russia-linked election content 
Facebook shut down the pro-secessionist, anti-Hillary Clinton Heart of Texas account in September, which had amassed over 225,000 followers, but the company admitted on Monday that as many as 126 million Americans saw propaganda crafted by Russia's Internet Research Agency. Screenshots of the conflicting anti-Islam and pro-Islam protests centered around a library located in the Islamic Da'wah Center in downtown Houston (@SenatorBurr/twitter) 
Likewise, Twitter outright offered to sell the Russia-funded news outlet RT 15 percent of its U.S. elections advertising after admitting to deleting information wanted by Russia investigators earlier this month. 
Burr was joined in his outrage across the aisle by the likes of Democratic Sens. Al Franken and Dianne Feinstein, who both attacked Facebook for its perceived apathy towards it users being exploited by Russians leading up to the 2016 presidential election. 
"I don't think you get it," Feinstein said. "What we're talking about is a cataclysmic change. What we're talking about is the beginning of cyber warfare. ... You have a huge problem on your hands." Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails