BUSINESS 
Leaked documents known as the Paradise Papers show how some of the world's wealthy elite use tax havens to shelter their money. Among those included in the reports are Queen Elizabeth II, U2 singer Bono and U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. (Nov. 6, 2017) 
Leaked documents known as the Paradise Papers show how some of the world's wealthy elite use tax havens to shelter their money. Among those included in the reports are Queen Elizabeth II, U2 singer Bono and U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. (Nov. 6, 2017) James F. Peltz and Tracey Lien gained fame and wealth as an early backer of Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc. and other Silicon Valley start-ups.
Called “ Russia’s most influential tech investor ” by Forbes, Milner’s wealth has enabled him to partner with Facebook Chairman Mark Zuckerberg in scientific philanthropy, form a spacecraft initiative with famed physicist Stephen Hawking, and buy one of the most expensive homes in the U.S. 
But now the technology investments that brought him riches have come under heightened scrutiny amid inquiries into possible Russian meddling in last year’s presidential election. 
Leaked documents known as the Paradise Papers showed that Milner’s Facebook investment, arranged by his investment firm DST Global, received financing from a subsidiary of the Kremlin-controlled energy giant Gazprom. 
They also showed that Milner’s Twitter investment had backing from VTB, a Russian state-controlled bank among the entities placed under U.S. sanctions since 2014 for Russia’s annexation of Crimea and its incursions in eastern Ukraine. 
The revelations were reported by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, which along with 95 media partners explored the leaked Paradise Papers files obtained by the German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung. 
No one is suggesting that Milner or his firms were involved in any wrongdoing. But revelations of the Russian government’s ties to his tech-world investments come as U.S. lawmakers are investigating how Russian operatives were able to use Facebook, Twitter and other internet platforms in hopes of influencing last year’s election. Congressional committees held hearings on the matter last week. 
“Today, with all the intense conversation taking place regarding Russia, as part of due diligence people naturally want to look carefully where the money is coming from,” said Thomas Cooke, a professor at Georgetown University ’s McDonough School of Business. Kimberly White / Getty Images for Breakthrough Prize Breakthrough Prize co-founders Mark Zuckerberg, left, and Yuri Milner speak at NASA Ames Research Center in 2016 in Mountain View, Calif. Breakthrough Prize co-founders Mark Zuckerberg, left, and Yuri Milner speak at NASA Ames Research Center in 2016 in Mountain View, Calif. (Kimberly White / Getty Images for Breakthrough Prize) .
Milner also invested $850,000 of his personal money last year in a real-estate investing firm called Cadre that is partially owned by the family of Jared Kushner , President Trump ’s son-in-law and senior advisor, Bloomberg reported . 
“This investment, like any other, was made on a purely commercial basis,” Milner said. “It no more implies a personal relationship with Mr. Kushner than buying some shares in Wal-Mart gets you invited to Thanksgiving with [founder] Sam Walton’s family.” 
DST Global noted in a statement that it was a passive investor in Facebook and Twitter and “there is nothing unusual” about an international investment firm accepting cash from sovereign states such as Russia. 
That’s true, said Michael Maduell, president of Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, a research group that studies sovereign funds. 
“Every major country is doing it,” he said. “You have the Saudis with their public investment fund investing in Uber, you have the China Investment Corp. and the Malaysian sovereign wealth fund.” 
In the case of Milner’s investments, “a lot of these deals happened before the Russian sanctions,” Maduell said. “Russia was also getting a lot of investment before this stuff. The script flipped after Crimea. That’s when sanctions came up.” 
Milner, who turns 56 on Saturday, grew up in Moscow. He earned a degree in physics from Moscow State University in 1985 but later abandoned physics, studied business at the University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School and worked at the World Bank for three years. 
He returned to Russia and later took control of Mail.ru, a major Russian internet company. With his firm’s initial investment in Facebook in 2009, he set his sights on the U.S. technology industry. 
As his technology bets paid off, Milner’s wealth soared. Forbes estimates his net worth at $3.5 billion. 
In 2011, Milner bought a 25,500-square-foot French chateau-style estate in Los Altos Hills in Silicon Valley for $100 million, among the highest prices ever paid for a single-family home in the United States. Paul Sakuma / Associated Press Exterior view of the $100 million mansion in Los Altos Hills, Calif., purchased by Yuri Milner. Exterior view of the $100 million mansion in Los Altos Hills, Calif., purchased by Yuri Milner. (Paul Sakuma / Associated Press) , Blue Origin’s Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson, who has a trio of space companies. But Milner’s efforts are different.
While Musk, Bezos and Branson are focused on building business models and customer bases for their commercial space plans, Milner is focused more on moonshots, said Bill Ostrove, aerospace and defense analyst for Forecast International. 
“These breakthrough missions are sort of a different beast,” he said. “They don’t really seem to be focused on building a long-term business.” CAPTION 
President Trump regrets his effort in three UCLA basketball players' release from China’s custody. Filmmaker Brett Ratner has long surrounded himself with powerful friends. Homicides in Harvard Park nearly tripled in 2016 . Zimbabwe’s president was expected to resign Sunday after the ruling party fired him. 
President Trump regrets his effort in three UCLA basketball players' release from China’s custody. Filmmaker Brett Ratner has long surrounded himself with powerful friends. Homicides in Harvard Park nearly tripled in 2016 . Zimbabwe’s president was expected to resign Sunday after the ruling party fired him. CAPTION 
President Trump regrets his effort in three UCLA basketball players' release from China’s custody. Filmmaker Brett Ratner has long surrounded himself with powerful friends. Homicides in Harvard Park nearly tripled in 2016 . Zimbabwe’s president was expected to resign Sunday after the ruling party fired him. 
President Trump regrets his effort in three UCLA basketball players' release from China’s custody. Filmmaker Brett Ratner has long surrounded himself with powerful friends. Homicides in Harvard Park nearly tripled in 2016 . Zimbabwe’s president was expected to resign Sunday after the ruling party fired him. CAPTION 
An obituary for Charles Manson, dead at 83. 
An obituary for Charles Manson, dead at 83. CAPTION 
A gunman killed four people and injured at least 10 during a rampage through rural Rancho Tehama.UCLA basketball players LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill have been suspended indefinitely. President Trump met with the Philippines' Rodrigo Duterte in Manila. Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions told Congress he did not lie about the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia. Cinefamily will shut down permanently in the wake of a scandal. Roy Moore's legal team disputes that he signed the high school yearbook of a woman accusing him of sexual assault. About 550,000 homes in Southern California have the highest risk of fire damage. 
A gunman killed four people and injured at least 10 during a rampage through rural Rancho Tehama.UCLA basketball players LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill have been suspended indefinitely. President Trump met with the Philippines' Rodrigo Duterte in Manila. Atty. Gen. Jeff Sessions told Congress he did not lie about the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia. Cinefamily will shut down permanently in the wake of a scandal. Roy Moore's legal team disputes that he signed the high school yearbook of a woman accusing him of sexual assault. About 550,000 homes in Southern California have the highest risk of fire damage. CAPTION 
Sen. Al Franken apologized after a Los Angeles radio anchor accused him of sexual harassment , House Republicans approved their sweeping tax-cut package Thursday, Sarah Silverman broke her silence on longtime friend Louis C.K. on Thursday, and UCLA is a 16-point underdog against No. 11 USC on Saturday. CAPTION 
UCLA basketball players LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill have been suspended indefinitely. Roy Moore's legal team disputes that he signed the high school yearbook of a woman accusing him of sexual assault. A 37-year-old man was convicted of murder in the torture death of his girlfriend's 8-year-old son. Concert promoter Goldenvoice is ending its partnership with FYF Festival founder Sean Carlson. 
UCLA basketball players LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill have been suspended indefinitely. Roy Moore's legal team disputes that he signed the high school yearbook of a woman accusing him of sexual assault. A 37-year-old man was convicted of murder in the torture death of his girlfriend's 8-year-old son. Concert promoter Goldenvoice is ending its partnership with FYF Festival founder Sean Carlson. 
Times staff writer Samantha Masunaga contributed to this story.