Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT) cites examples of Russian-created Facebook ads at an 'Extremist Content and Russian Disinformation Online' hearing Tuesday. (Drew Angerer/Getty Images) NEW YORK DAILY NEWS Wednesday, November 1, 2017, 4:20 PM 
The Senate Intelligence Committee released a selection of Russian-backed Facebook ads aimed at influencing last year’s presidential election by sowing division among Americans. 
Among them were caricatures of Democractic politicians, including U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders, President Bill Clinton, and former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. 
Russian authorities secretly created Facebook accounts to disseminate the ads, viewed by roughly 10 million people, according to Facebook's estimate. 
One post revived the baseless claim that Clinton was the father of a son born to a former prostitute in Arkansas. The House Intel Committee released a sampling of Russia backed Facebook and Instagram ads, including one that features Senator Bernie Sanders as a buff superhero. (House Intel Comm.) 
“Danny Williams, 30, has been trying since at least 1999 to be acknowledged as the out-of-wedlock son of former President Bill Clinton and a black prostitute in Little Rock, Arkansas,” the ad read. It featured photos of the pair and encouraged Facebook users to subscribe to a YouTube channel. 
The ad’s metadata shows it ran for two days, beginning on Oct. 18, and was clicked on more than 1,000 times. 
Russians used the ads as tools in an attempt to undermine the U.S. democracy and help Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton, U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded. The House Intel Committee has release a sampling of Russia backed Facebook and Instagram ads. (House Intel Comm.) 
Another ad posted by “american.veterans” referred to former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton as “Killary Clinton.” She “will never understand what it feels like to lose the person you love for the sake of your country,” the ad read in part. The post appeared on Instagram, a Facebook-owned property. 
Russian 'troll farm' content reached 126M Americans on Facebook 
The ads appeared to be aimed at users subscribed to different religious, political and social groups. An ad posted by a group called “LGBT United” featured Sanders as a buff superhero. 
A caricature of the U.S. senator flexes its muscles in front of a drawing of the White House. An ad shared by the "Born Liberal" facebook group shows Bernie Sanders attacking the Clinton Foundation. (House Intel Comm.) 
“You can color your own Bernie Hero!” the ad read. 
“There is a new coloring book calling ‘Buff Bernie: A coloring Book for Berniacs’ is full of very attractive doodles of Bernie Sanders in muscle poses.” 
A Facebook group called “Army of Jesus” shared another ad pitting Satan against Jesus. The House Intel Committee released an ad urging protestors to attend an anti-Trump rally in Union Square. (House Intel Comm.) 
It compared Clinton to Satan and Trump to Jesus, saying, “Today Americans are able to elect a president with godly moral principles. Hillary is a Satan, and her crimes and lies had proved just how evil she is. And even though Donald Trump isn’t a saint by any means, he’s at least an honest man and he cares deeply for this country. My vote goes for him!” 
The ads continued to appear even after Trump won the election. One encouraged protesters to attend an anti-Trump rally on Nov. 12, 2016. 
“People are genuinely scared for their futures! Racism won, Ignorance won, Sexual assault won,” the announcement read. Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails