CK Tan Posted on 14 November 2017 | 11,851 views | 39 comments 
A Singaporean man allegedly posed as a young hunk, ‘Happy Tan’ on Facebook to solicit nude photos from women -one of whom was his neighbour - and trick them into having sex with him. 
The man, Alvin Yeo Pei Jin, 48, was sentenced to 13 months’ jail after pleading guilty to two counts of criminal intimidation, one count each of intentional harassment and mischief, as well as one count of insulting the modesty of a woman, reports the New Straits Times . 
Another 10 charges for similar offences were taken into consideration during the sentencing. 
The Court heard that Yeo had three different accounts on Facebook. 
In one of the accounts, Yeo downloaded a photo of a young Taiwanese man, which he used as the profile picture. 
Going with his handle, ‘Happy Tan’, Yeo targeted women, luring them and asking them for their nude photos. 
He especially favored middle-aged Chinese women with long hair. 
In June 2016, Yeo got to know a 48-year-old woman via the account and the two exchanged numbers. 
They started chatting via WhatsApp, and soon after, Yeo asked for a nude photo of his target. 
She complied, and upon receiving the photo, Yeo realised that the woman was his neighbour who lived in an apartment above his. 
Yeo decided to continue soliciting nude photos and planned to have sex with her. 
The neighbour in question was already married and has children. 
Worried that his plot may be exposed, Yeo decided to blackmail the woman into submission. 
Between June 14 and 15, 2016, Yeo sent many messages to the victim, telling her that he knew of her marriage, job and even address. 
According to Shin Min Daily News , Yeo also lied that his relationship with the victim had been found out by his wife, who wanted her to sleep with five other men as ‘punishment’. 
Yeo had done so hoping that he would be one of the five men chosen. 
The woman later decided to block him on phone and on Facebook. 
She also filed a police report. 
On June 19, she was heading out with her two children when she spotted a nude photo of hers, with a portion of her face torn off, pasted outside her home. 
Later that evening. her son also found a piece of paper discarded at her doorstep, with Chinese words written on it that read, ‘If you don’t reply to my message tomorrow, I will come and post a photo of your face at the door.’ 
Yeo was subsequently arrested by the police three months later at the Changi Airport. 
Officers also found five videos of an unknown woman showering on his phone, taken in Dec 2009. 
Investigations later revealed that he had taken these videos of his ex-colleague in his company’s toilet. 
Yeo also threatened another to post nude photos of another 52-year-old woman whom he had met via 
Facebook if she did not have sex with him. 
For criminal intimidation, Yeo could have been jailed up to two years, fined, or both. 
He could have faced six months’ jail, fined up to $5,000 or both for intentional harassment. 
For insulting a woman’s modesty and mischief, Yeo could have been jailed for a year, fined, or both.