Safe Swapping: The Facebook Marketplace You stand to make some fast cash, but it comes at a risk. By: Dana Winter Posted: Nov 06, 2017 01:24 PM CST Updated: Nov 06, 2017 10:40 PM CST 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. - With more than a billion active, monthly users, the Facebook Marketplace can be an inviting spot to list your unwanted goods, or even start a business. In this report, we take an in depth look at how Northwest Arkansas is helping you put some extra cash in your pocket by making more safe spots for swapping goods. 
Facebook seller Garret Luna says, "Really it's just Facebook or bust because everyone is moving to Facebook." 
For homeowners Jillian Martinez and Garret Luna, the Facebook Marketplace is a hot spot for sales. Martinez says, "We've actually been paying our mortgage with it for the last year." The pair got their start about a year ago when they moved into a house, but couldn't afford furniture. Luna says, "So we just started picking up free stuff off curbs and fixing it up, painting it, refurbishing." Martinez adds, "I think our first piece - we did a crackle effect and we both kind of were in awe like wow this actually turned out really good." 
Now regular sellers on the Marketplace, the couple doesn't take chances when it comes to making exchanges. Luna says, "Even though Facebook has its own profiles and you're able to identify people a lot more specifically than Craigslist, you still never know what you're going to get." Martinez says, "Furniture we have them come here because it's a little harder to load up every time, but as far as little things go, I always make sure he's with me, we always go at a public place." 
Facebook recommends making exchanges in public places and here in Northwest Arkansas, police and even some local businesses are giving people plenty of options. Lutenient Jeff Taylor with the Springdale Police says, "All of our cameras around the Police Department are recorded 24-hours a day - seven days a week, and so if something does happen, they reported an incident that happened here in the front parking lot, we'd be able to pull that camera footage." Springdale Police say although they don't have an exact number, locals regularly exchange goods at the station. 
Cave Springs Coffee Company owner Rodney Wilson says, "It's surprising, I've actually seen quite a few people use it and they also do sales inside the shop as well." The Cave Springs Coffee Company is another common swap spot. Owner Rodney Wilson says the cameras in his parking lot store video for 30 days. He says, "I've had the police department of Cave Springs, a couple of times, come over and review tapes when something has happened behind the coffee shop." As the Facebook Marketplace continues to grow, Wilson hopes more Northwest Arkansas businesses will create safe exchange environments. Wilson says, "There's very few places around here where you can just go to a public area that's video taped and just make sure that the transaction is secure and goes as you hope it would go." 
Although Jillian and Garret tell us they've never run into any problems, they pre-screen every prospective buyer, just in case. For anyone thinking about getting on the Marketplace, it can be profitable, so long as you do it safely. Martinez says, "It's our little side business." Luna adds, "A good rule of thumb is just to bring someone with you - keep it public." 
To learn more about Jillian & Garret click here . 
To connect with the Springdale Police Department click here . 
To learn more about the Cave Springs Coffee Co. click here . Copyright 2017 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. More Stories 
You might start to notice more of the area's homeless population… 23 minutes ago