Puzzles Comping Queen Savvy mum has bagged £5000 of competition prizes by scrolling Facebook for half an hour a day… and even has Christmas covered 
Aggie Leighton has landed festival tickets, designer jewellery and hundreds of pounds worth of Christmas presents By Alison Maloney 23rd November 2017, 8:51 am Updated: 23rd November 2017, 9:01 am A SAVVY mum who spends half an hour a day entering competitions has landed £5000 of booty… including hundreds of pounds worth of Christmas presents. 
Aggie Leighton, 36, of Ealing, west London, starting “comping” while pregnant with her daughter, Helena, now four. PA Real Life Aggie with husband Kevin and daughter Helena 
She and husband Kevin, also 36, wanted to save money as they prepared for the added expense of becoming parents. 
Since then, the IT consultant has won everything from Camp Bestival tickets and designer jewellery to lesson at a Michelin star cookery school worth almost £300. 
She said: “I always enter loads of competitions in the run up to Christmas. 
“It’s an expensive time of year, so any way to save money is great. I’ve won some brilliant presents, like a Swarovski jewellery set, a cookbook autographed by the Hairy Bikers, YSL perfume and some baby shoes, which I gave to my little nephew.” PA Real Life Aggie at the Michel Roux experience she won in a competiton 
Aggie, who devotes her commute to work to scrolling through Facebook on her phone, looking for and entering competitions, has now signed up for thousands of giveaways, tracking them on a spreadsheet, which she regularly updates. 
She also blogs about wins, sharing tips with her 5,000-strong following. 
But she still has fond memories of entering her first ever competition when she was pregnant. PA Real Life The designer jewellery Aggie won 
Her mind on ways to save money, she went to a baby and toddler event at London Olympia, where she was handed scores of leaflets advertising competitions. 
She said: “I spent the last week before giving birth filling in forms and entering all these giveaways. Right before I had Helena, I won my first prize – a gorgeous pram worth around £1,200. It was great timing.” 
She added: “Winning so early gave me that boost to keep going.” PA Real Life Helena at Bestival, which Aggie got free tickets for 
Aggie has come a long way since then and now, keen to optimise her time, she prefers entering things that ask people to simply like or share a social media post. 
“I tend to stay away from anything that takes too long to enter,” she explained. “I’ll spend around half an hour a day on my commute having a scroll. I enter most things through Facebook or email.” PA Real Life Aggie has Christmas covered after winning gifts and getting cashback 
“I’m also really careful to only enter something I’d actually want to win. There’s just no point if you have no use for the prize. I prefer winning experiences over material things, as that’s more the type of thing I wouldn’t usually buy.” 
Most recently, Aggie won a three-month gym membership, which comes with personal training and nutritional advice. Aggie's favourite wins so far 
A VIP family makeover and photoshoot 
Camp Bestival tickets 
Hydrotherapy experience 
Cooking the Roux way experience 
Previously, she whisked Kevin and Helena to Dorset-based music festival, Camp Bestival, after scoring free family tickets, as well as landing a class at Michelin-starred chef Michel Roux Jr’s London cookery school. 
On top of comping, thrifty Aggie uses five different cash back apps, which work by reimbursing you with any money spent on items they list. 
She explained: “Before I go shopping, I’ll always check my apps and see what offers are on. Then, all I have to do is buy it, take a photo of the receipt and I’ll get some money back. PA Real Life Aggie and Kevin on their wedding day Most read in Fabulous Woman 'too busy to date' has been paying escort for sex for over TWO YEARS MYSTIC MEG November 23: Venus unlocks hidden sector of your chart to reveal a secret crush OFF YOUR FACE Do you know what booze is best for your skin - and which could ruin it? BRA-NO! Bella Hadid reveals more than she bargained for at Victoria's Secret Fashion Show HOW KEN IT BE? Kendall Jenner made £17m last year — it's all thanks to her pushy mum Kris FESTIVE DE-LIGHT Asda's selling a light-up Prosecco Xmas jumper - but you'd better be quick 
“Sometimes, I even get free things in return for a product review. Most of the time, it’s hair and beauty products, which is great as I’d need to buy them anyway.” 
After just a year of using cash back apps, Aggie has saved an enormous £600 – money she plans to put toward the family Christmas. 
“Comping has been great for me, I must’ve won about £5,000 worth of prizes now,” she said. 
“People always ask me how I do it and can’t believe it works, but it’s simple – you’ve just got to be in it to win it.” 
“If you enter 10 competitions every single day, sooner or later you will win. I really want to help other people to save money too, especially around Christmas.” 
Visit Aggie’s blog at www.savvycomper.co.uk. Aggie's Top Tips For Comping 
Create a separate email address for comping to avoid your regular inbox being clogged up 
Be mindful – don’t enter a competition you wouldn’t want to win, it might be a dream prize for someone else 
Use form-filling apps to complete entry forms automatically, saving you time 
Don’t enter every competition you see – instead ask if the prize is worth the time and effort 
Remember not to take it too seriously – comping is a fun hobby! 
Thrifty mum Aimee Moore saved £48,000 thanks to her love of coupons and even quite her job. 
A financial vlogger recently revealed she had saved £20,000 by cutting back on nights out, taking lunch to work and renting out her home at weekends on Airbnb. Martin Lewis warns shoppers NOT to spend their Nectar points yet