Scott Oldford - 100 Leads per Week with Facebook Advertising Scott Oldford - 100 Leads per Week with Facebook Advertising MP4 + MP3 + PDF | Language English | 528 MB | AVC 1276 x 674 | AAC 128 kb/s , 44 kHZ Genre: Video Training Internet Marketing Discover the Secrets of How to Use Facebook to Generate 100 Qualified Leads Per Week... EVERY Week. What if you could control the destiny of your business growth? What if you could turn on or off a switch of your perfect customers, clients and advocates? What's included in your All-Access Pass? Full access to our 3-hour training session which will bring you through ALL the tactics and strategies so you can build a profitable Facebook marketing strategy and implement it successfully. 100% Satisfaction Guarantee We don't create shiny objects, we show entrepreneurs just like you the tactics and strategies that work. However, if for any reason you're not happy with the training, simply email us and we'll refund the entire amount of your purchase, no questions asked. Still have questions? Read our F.A.Q's. What's the big deal with Facebook advertising? In the entire history of marketing there has never been a time where you can target your perfect audience so effectively, efficently and affordably. This allows us to generate leads in a way never done before. How is the content delivered? The content is delivered by video that you can watch time and tiem again. Additional resources are provided via PDFs, Excel sheets and videos. What type of businesses can use this? We haven't found a single business that cannot use Facebook advertising effectively. Everything from B2B, B2C, personal brands, authors, and everyone in between. Simply put, the results are limitless. If I don't have a marketing funnel, is that okay? Yes! We're going to show you EXACTLY how to create a funnel that will work with Facebook to bring in a steady flow of new leads! Ready to learn how to generate 100 leads a WEEK with Facebook advertising? If you're spending a ton of CASH on generating new leads... If you've used Facebook Advertising in the past and it was just a big fat MEH... There is a better way... And I'm going to show you. Scott Oldford here from INFINITUS... I help entrepreneurs that are focused on growing their businesses, do exactly that. How? Through effective online marketing funnels that are able help you grow, stop the feast and famines allowing you to have the BEST year EVER! Today, I want to help you with a KEY piece of what I show entrepreneurs. It's generated our customers MILLIONS of DOLLARS, and I gurantee it'll help you reach more people allowing you to impact and profit in your own business. I have an exclusive training. I think you're a good fit. Obviously you're an entrepreneur that adds value to the marketplace and wants to impact more and more people. So here's what I'm going to show you: How to use the "authority triangle" to gain trust, likeability and super low cost per conversions. How to use our SSF method with Facebook to create a "chain reaction" allowing you extremely cheap conversions for any business. Why developing specific "niche" audiences is the secret key to the leads you want. How in less than a day you can have a super effective Facebook lead generation campaign. AND... Everything you need to know to create MASSIVE RESULTS