Thursday, November 9, 2017, 2:50 PM 
"God only knows" what Facebook is doing to our children's brains. 
Sean Parker revealed in a new interview posted Thursday that getting people to obsess about the social networking giant was a goal from the beginning. 
"The thought process that went into building these applications, Facebook being the first of them, ... was all about: 'How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?'" the founding president told Axios . 
The 37-year-old entrepreneur told Axios that people get a rush from seeing how other users react to their posts, and stay glued to the site. 
Twitter deleted information wanted by Russia investigators 
"We need to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while, because someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever," he said. "And that's going to get you to contribute more content, and that's going to get you ... more likes and comments." More than 2 billion people use Facebook around the world. (Matt Rourke/AP) 
"It's a social-validation feedback loop ... exactly the kind of thing that a hacker like myself would come up with, because you're exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology," he continued. 
More than 2 billion people around the world use Facebook. Users spend approximately 20 minutes a day on the website, and Parker says that "it probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains." 
Parker said during the interview that leaders of Facebook and other social media outlets understood that they were "exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology," yet "did it anyway." 
Winklevoss twins sue investor who said they ducked pot biz duties 
"When Facebook was getting going, I had these people who would come up to me and they would say, 'I'm not on social media,'" Parker told Axios. "And I would say, 'OK. You know, you will be.' And then they would say, 'No, no, no. I value my real-life interactions. I value the moment. I value presence. I value intimacy.' And I would say, ... 'We'll get you eventually.'" Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails