A 16-year-old teenager identified as Victory , was kidnapped by a man she befriended through Facebook. The 24-year old kidnapper, Michael Duda , was yesterday, paraded in Benin, Edo State. 
He confessed he kidnapped his girlfriend to raise money for their wedding. 
Reports reveal that Micheal, an OND graduate of Business Administration from the Federal Polytechnic Auchi, said he got to know Victory after she accepted his friend’s request. 
He said as their friendship grew stronger, he decided to invite her to his house which she accepted. He however denied that he abducted her against her wish, adding that both of them planned her kidnap to raise money. 
READ ALSO: Kidnapped at 14 & Raped for Months, Elizabeth Smart Tells Her Story to Advice Other Parents 
The suspect, who said he sells cups, admitted that he had sex with the girl throughout the four days. 
“I live at Ekae, off Sapele Road. She came to my house. We planned to collect money from her father to raise money for our wedding, but I did not collect the money again. She stayed in my home for four days. 
I couldn’t tell the father I want to marry his daughter. She said her father will not agree because she is yet to gain admission to a university. She was with me for four days. The father said he had no money. I was at home with my lover when the police came to arrest me.” 
READ ALSO: Missing 15-Year-Old JSS 2 Student, Asmau Ajibade Found in ‘Lover’s’ Apartment 
On her part, the kidnapped victim said Micheal invited her to come to his house, less than a month of becoming friends on Facebook. 
She said she was surprised that Michael abducted her when she got to his home, adding that she learnt he demanded N4 million from her father for her release. 
READ ALSO: See How Single Mother of Four in Lagos Defrauded Her Facebook Lover 
However, Michael denied demanding for N4 million ransom, saying that he demanded for just N2 million. 
“We planned to collect money from her father to raise money for our marriage but I did not collect the money again. She stayed in my house for four days,” he said. 
Source : TheNews