Click to print (Opens in new window) File- This Jan. 17, 2017, file photo shows a Facebook logo being displayed in a start-up companies gathering at Paris’ Station F, in Paris. Facebook says ordering food for takeout or delivery is complicated, and it will help users save time by bringing a bunch of existing food-delivery services into its app and partnering with some restaurants directly. Of course, using Facebook to order food might prompt users to spend more time perusing their news feeds and seeing ads. (AP Photo/Thibault Camus, File) By Patrick May | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: November 1, 2017 at 10:14 am | UPDATED: November 1, 2017 at 2:40 pm 
As Facebook’s top lawyer was raked over the coals this week by a Congressional panel, the senators wandered into existential territory when they raised questions about ads and posts created by Russian operatives to sway the presidential election. 
As Recode so eloquently phrased it: “It’s unknown whether or not these ads or posts had any actual influence on voter opinion, but the tech companies are in a major pickle. Either the ads worked, and they are responsible for influencing the election, or the ads and posts don’t work, in which case their business pitch to advertisers looks pretty weak.” 
Ouch! 
In the hot seat for this ”when did you stop beating your wife” interrogation sat Colin Stretch, vice-president and general counsel at Facebook. He clearly saw the question coming and was ready for it – by completely avoiding answering it. As Recode phrased it, “When asked if these kinds of posts had any influence, Facebook’s general counsel Colin Stretch balked. ‘We’re not well-positioned to judge why any one person or an entire electorate voted as it did,'” he said. 
Still smarting after getting taken to the woodshed by guys like Sen. Al Franken on the Senate Judiciary Committee, stand-ins for the high-tech triumvirate of Twitter, Facebook and Google are back in Washington today for more questioning, this time by the House Intelligence Committee and the Senate’s sister panel. But Tuesday’s show was awkward, to say the least, for Facebook’s Stretch, who was obliged to watch a presentation of some of the Russian-spawned political ads and blog posts that have now gotten the social-media company in such hot water.