FENNIMORE, Wis. - A man is facing charges after alleged threats he made forced a technical college in Grant County to lock down Wednesday , officials said. 
The Grant County Sheriff's Office said the lockdown and closure of Southwest Technical College in Fennimore Wednesday all stemmed from a man who was angered by Facebook activity. 
According to the report, at 8 a.m., deputies and Fennimore police responded to Southwest Tech on reports that 42-year-old William Howell, of Livingston, was coming to the school to harm a student he believed was having an affair with his estranged wife. Howell's alleged target and his wife are both students at the school. 
The sheriff's office said that on Tuesday night, Howell discovered a male subject had liked pictures of his children on Facebook, which led Howell to believe his estranged wife was having the affair. Copyright 2017 by Channel 3000. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Copyright 2017 by Channel 3000. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. 
Howell became angry and began messaging his estranged wife via Facebook and text messages throughout the night, officials said. The messages included threats to come to the Southwest Tech campus and assault the man who had liked the pictures online. 
Initially, the threats were vague, but as the investigation unfolded, it was determined by investigators that the threats by Howell were directed at one specific person. Officials said Howell was never on campus. 
Howell reportedly went to the woman's apartment around 7 a.m. on Wednesday to confront her about his belief of her having an affair, officials said. He pounded on the apartment door and also attempted to stop her from taking the children to school, the sheriff's office said. 
Based on Howell's alleged threats, school officials said they made the decision to close the campus and send students home while law enforcement members investigated. 
A short time later, Howell was taken into custody at his home in the village of Livingston without incident and taken to the Grant County Jail on a charge of disorderly conduct. 
Howell was later released after posting a cash bond. 
The sheriff's office said Wednesday afternoon that there is no threat to the public. Copyright 2017 by Channel 3000. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.