Shireen Mazari: Age, Husband, Marriage, Family, Daughter, Pictures, Contact, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram Eesha October 30, 2017 Google+ 5 / 5 ( 2 ) 
Dr Shireen Mehrunnisa Mazari is a very strong and well educated woman, a professor, and a very bold Pakistani politician, commonly known by the name as Shireen Mazari. She is the daughter of a bureaucrat and a politician Ashiq Muhammad Khan Mazari. Currently she is a Member of National Assembly of Pakistan from fastest growing party, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI). She was elected on the reserved seat for women from PTI. After joining the party she served as an administrator to ensure that all the members of the party attend and vote as the party leadership desires. Shireen Mazari Education and Professional Career 
Dr Mazari graduated from London School of Economics and then she had her PhD in Political Sciences from Columbia University, USA. After getting her PhD Mazari started her professional career as an associate professor in Quaid-e-Azam University Islamabad and later she was appointed head of department of Strategic studies. 
In 2002 Dr Mazari was appointed as Director General of “Institute of Strategic Studies” which was completely funded by Government of Pakistan. She served at the post until 2008 when Government of Pakistan removed her from the post a year ahead of her retirement due to her aggressive and hard hitting articles against US about their intervention in internal affairs of Pakistan. After that she decided to join journalism and was appointed as the chief editor of the country top ranked daily English newspaper “The Nation”. Political Career of Shireen Mazari 
She started her political career in 2008 by joining Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI), and just after one year she was appointed as information secretary and media spokesperson of PTI. in 2010 she was appointed as central vice president for the party. Dr Shireen mazari resigned from PTI in 2012 due to her conflict with other senior party members but later rejoined the party in 2013. She became Member of National Assembly in 2013 General elections on the ticket of PTI for the reserved seats of women from the province of Punjab. Dr Shireen Mazari Age 
Dr Shireen mazari was born on April 26, 1966. According to her profile she is over 51 years. She started her professional career at the age of 34, and joined politics at the age of 42. Husband and Children of Dr Mazari 
Shireen Mazari is married to a Doctor Tabish Aitabar Hazir. He is also an associate professor of Pediatrics and head of department at the, Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) in Islamabad. They have two children from their marriage; one of her daughter is Imman Hazir Mazari who was criticized for her stance on woman empowerment and personal pictures on Twitter and other social media. Contacting Shireen Mazari 
You can contact Dr Shireen Mazari by sending her a message on any of her official social media profile.