By now, the whole world knows Prince Harry and Suits actress Meghan Markle are engaged –which means there's going to be another royal wedding (and no Bank Holiday) to look forward to. But the nation seems more preoccupied with the thought of Prince Harry's stag do. Don’t care about Prince Harry getting married - but I reckon his stag do should be televised nationally. — SimonNRicketts (@SimonNRicketts) November 27, 2017 Prince Harry is getting married. Channel 5 have won the rights to his stag do. — Chuck Thomas (@chuckthomasuk) November 27, 2017 And let's face it, Prince Harry's stag would be a right royal rave-up... Exhibit A: Prince Harry’s stag do goin’ OFF pic.twitter.com/CiWLaPs1sN — Jennifer Journo (@JenniferRDxo) November 28, 2017 Exhibit B: Prince Harry’s stag will be the stuff of legends pic.twitter.com/AdMraDmZfN — R O S S T Λ L B O T (@rosstalbot) November 28, 2017 Anyway, despite stag dos usually being an absolute nightmare to organise, some genius has taken it upon themselves to invite people to Harry's stag, creating a Facebook page for the event. Over 30,000 people have already RSVPed as attending, with 95,000 "interested" in the event. "Bunga Bunga Prince is getting married," the event description reads. "Let's celebrate with him!" Although the date, time and location are all still "TBC", Harry's stag has been provisionally set for May 10 until May 12, 2018 – so clear your diaries. Taking to Twitter, one Quote: : "Over on Facebook I've been invited on Prince Harry's stag do. Would be rude to say no." Another person said: "My dad just told me he's going to Prince Harry's stag do. I see the banter of marking yourself going to random Facebook events has seeped across generations". My dad just told me he's going to Prince Harry's stag do. I see the banter of marking yourself going to random Facebook events has seeped across generations — Libbæ Mayfield (@libby_ayres) November 28, 2017 "Let's admit it, we all want to go on Prince Harry's stag do," a third wrote. Let’s admit it, we all want to go on Prince Harry’s stag do. — John_Doe (@zakydpikey) November 27, 2017 Harry announced his engagement to Meghan on Monday morning (November 27), through a statement from Clarence House. "His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales is delighted to announce the engagement of Prince Harry to Ms Meghan Markle," the official announcement read. "The wedding will take place in spring 2018. Further details about the wedding day will be announced in due course. The Prince of Wales is delighted to announce the engagement of Prince Harry to Ms. Meghan Markle. pic.twitter.com/zdaHR4mcY6 — Clarence House (@ClarenceHouse) November 27, 2017 "His Royal Highness and Ms Markle became engaged in London earlier this month. Prince Harry has informed Her Majesty The Queen and other close members of his family. "Prince Harry has also sought and received the blessing of Ms Markle's parents. The couple will live in Nottingham Cottage at Kensington Palace." Harry and Meghan also attended a photocall at Kensington Palace on Monday afternoon and gave a broadcast interview where they talked about the proposal and their plans for the future. Harry revealed he'd "never heard" of Meghan before their first blind date, and Meghan also reflected on her time on Suits – hinting that she could be leaving the long-running legal drama if it gets commissioned for an eighth season. entertainment news and features? @digitalspy Twitter account and you're all set.