Share on Facebook 399   
Demetris Payne believes in old-fashioned parenting. So, when her son got suspended for school for three days, she didn’t just let him sit at home and play video games. 
Instead, she put him to work — and the engaging way she did it has gotten a lot of attention. 
According to KSLA-TV , when the Shreveport, Louisiana, mother found out that her son had been suspended, she made a viral post in the Facebook group South Bossier Online Yard Sale advertising his services.   
“My son has been suspended for 3 days from school and for discipline,” the original post reads. “He will do your lawn service, he will rake your yard, mow if supply mower , pick up trash, or wash your car for free. Maximum 3hr.” TRENDING: Dem. Sen. Disowns Clinton Over Sex, Then Humiliating Past Statements Surface 
“If anyone has a rake they would like to donate will be awesome. And he will do it all for free……” the post added, along with a winking emoji. 
Ouch. And it didn’t take long for her brand of parenting to catch on with local residents — so much that she had to keep a schedule of what her son was supposed to do for whom.   
“He’s booked up for this weekend, so it’ll be next weekend. I got so many requests … that I have to make a schedule,” Payne said. 
And it wasn’t just people who wanted yard work done who helped Payne carry out her punishment. 
Meanwhile, guess who’s back in school?   
“Meeting with all his teachers and set up a plan so we can make sure he stays on track…” Payne posted earlier this week. RELATED: Mesmerizing Footage Shows Trump Being Laser-Etched onto an AR-15 Mag 
When reporters asked her what would happen if he slipped up, Payne said it would involve upping the punishment. 
“Instead of two yards a day, he is going to be out there until dark doing it,” Payne said.   
Demetris Payne, we salute you. This is parenting as it should be done. 
Instead of letting things slide, you taught your son the value of education and discipline, all in one epic move. 
In an age where parents helicopter over their kids, yet have become more permissive than ever, this is the kind of parenting we need . 
H/T Breitbart 
Please like and share on Facebook and Twitter with your thoughts on this mother’s parenting style. How would you have handled your son being suspended from school?