Staffordshire University lecturer Nurdilek Dalziel investigates how social media can be used a customer services channel Share Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
"A few years ago, I undertook a research project on the use of social media (SM) as a customer services channel. 
As customers, we all are dependent on an effectively working call centre for any services. It is utmost important that a call centre operates not only cost effectively and also to the satisfaction of its customers. 
Having spent around 10 years of my professional life working for financial institutions, I always had an interest in bank-customer relationships. 
In parallel with technological developments in recent years, I observed a considerable shift from branches to call centres and mobile banking. Based on this background, we focused on the use of SM as a customer services channel by bank customers. Read More BrightHouse to pay out £14.8m to customers 
We identified eight UK banks which actively offered customer service on their Facebook page when we carried out this project in 2013. 
Our starting point was why bank customers post a query on their bank’s Facebook page which is visible to over two billion users worldwide. Contrary to our initial expectations, the banks’ Facebook pages were popular repositories for customer queries and comments. 
The posts from bank customers provided an explanation to this question. First, bank customers wanted a quick response. Customers had high expectations with regard to the speed of response on Facebook. 
Second, it was due to the perceived inefficiency of other channels. The bank customers we sampled did not feel they were being listened to on other channels. Nurdilek Dalziel, lecturer at Staffordshire Business School 
When they reached Facebook, they were already stressed, were feeling frustrated and had lost their trust in their bank. Hence, SM was viewed as a last resort when traditional channels have failed: 
“I am left with one option ‘Take it Public via the Media’ as [Bank X] don’t give a toss about me as a customer!” (Bank customer) 
Next, we analysed the quality of interaction between banks and their customers. 
The staff appeared to be competent in demonstrating good communication skills, in particular when a customer had a basic banking enquiry. 
A common theme emerging across the banks’ Facebook pages was “we’d like to help”. Read More New jobs with designers who helped to shape bet365 Stadium 
The banks responded to customer posts in a polite and courteous fashion with encouraging language for the customers to get in touch for further support if needed. The tone of response was conversational, informal, jargon-free and even humorous. 
On the other hand, it is now accepted that going beyond basic communication skills, organisations should provide a service that is delivered in a personalised manner taking into account individual cases, i.e. customer-oriented. 
We observed that banks had weaknesses, in particular when it came to addressing the customer complaints in an empathetic way. Very few banks provided a service which promoted feelings of “going-extra-mile”. 
Similarly, there was little evidence that banks’ Facebook team met the expectations of bank customers. 
Customer frustration was a common theme emerging from the data that was collected. The frustrations of customers were often related to their misunderstanding of the role of their bank’s Facebook page. Read More Ben Dyer on working with business moguls Lord Alan Sugar and Theo Paphitis 
Due to the perceived inefficiencies of other banking channels, customers wanted to post their queries and comment on their frustrations using Facebook; while banks wanted to deal only with more generalised banking queries on their Facebook pages. 
In addition, bank customers seemed to expect a more personalised service such as addressing them in person and solving their problems in a timely and empathetic manner. 
Sincerity of interaction was another communication characteristic emerging from the data. A script-read conversation and the sincerity of apology were aspects that bank customers commented upon. Customers appreciated that their problems were resolved; however, they were not pleased that their problems were addressed because of the role of Facebook (and not because the bank had the customer’s interests at heart). 
The bank customers were also critical of the lack of service personalisation which resulted in banks’ Facebook teams functioning like a reception desk – with a role restricted to directing customers to other communication channels including a call centre, website, bank branch, email or post. Read More Printing company launches 'Personally Speaking' plaques as alternative to greetings cards 
Most queries had complicated backgrounds such as a dispute about an online transaction, a declined mortgage application and the transfer of deeds from a bank to a house owner. The majority of customer posts were related to service failure incidents which were not resolved satisfactorily by other communication channels and there were also complaints about not being able to talk to the right person. 
Nonetheless, the Facebook team continued to direct customers back to other channels, and this caused frustration. 
Is Banking Regulation to Blame? 
Financial institutions emphasise the role of banking regulation as a restrictive force on their participation on SM platforms. 
However, our data revealed considerable differences across the eight banks we analysed This was unexpected since both banks work under the same regulation. 
This implies that the way the Facebook team can respond to queries is not merely restricted by regulation. A bank’s own SM policies, and the training and empowerment of its Facebook team are also likely to impact on its interactions with customers with the potential to influence the quality of interaction between the parties. Read More Coin specialists' North Staffordshire branch set for further growth following launch of 'world first' 
In conclusion, for basic banking queries such as queries about whether online / mobile banking was down, bank opening hours and how to open a bank account, SM teams were able to offer a satisfactory service. 
Nevertheless, for service failure related queries, Facebook teams appeared to have weaknesses which were related to their skills set as well as the level of training and empowerment that they had. 
The banks’ Facebook teams mostly presented the skill set for an effective service delivery yet with a limited skill set for an effective service recovery. 
Hence, we argue that it is not sufficient simply to shift staff from traditional call centres to a SM team. In fact, it may be a better solution to have separate SM teams for service delivery and service recovery, and to train and empower each team accordingly." Like us on Facebook