The major market indexes rallied to all-time highs Wednesday morning, but pulled back as the morning wore on as Apple ( AAPL ) and some other techs retreated. The Fed's policy statement is due at 2 p.m. ET. No action is expected, but it will provide clues on the likelihood of its next rate increase — which is widely expected to be in December.
X Autoplay: On | Off The Dow Jones industrial average led the way, up 0.5%. The S&P 500 and the tech-heavy Nasdaq moved up nearly 0.4% and 0.1%, respectively.
Stocks began fading soon after the open, continuing after a weaker-than-expected but still-strong October manufacturing index from the Institute of Supply Management at 10 a.m. ET.
Among the Dow Jones Industrial components, Goldman Sachs ( GS ) was rapidly approaching a saucer with handle's 247.18 buy point on Wednesday. The investment bank advanced 1.2%.
Elsewhere on the Dow, General Electric ( GE ) initially rose 1%, but reversed to down 0.2% after falling in the prior seven trading sessions as expectations of a potential dividend cut gained steam. Over the last two weeks, shares have fallen over 15%, approaching multiyear lows.
On the downside, Apple reversed lower, falling 1.3%. The stock is back in buy range from a cup with handle's 160.97 entry. The iPhone maker will report its fiscal Q4 results after the close Thursday.
FANG stocks were generally higher early Wednesday. Facebook ( FB ) advanced 0.7% ahead of its much-awaited Q3 earnings release after the market close. Consensus estimates, as polled by Zacks Investment Research, expect $9.88 billion in revenue and earnings per share of $1.29. Shares are trading toward the high end of the 5% buy range from a 175.59 flat-base entry.
Amazon.com ( AMZN ) dipped 0.1% while Netflix ( NFLX ) moved up 0.4% apiece. Google-parent Alphabet ( GOOGL ) rose 0.9%. All three are still in buy range from their most recent entries. Amazon has a 1083.41 buy point. Netflix has a 190.05 cup-with-handle entry, while Alphabet sports a 1006.29 buy point.
Among companies reporting earnings in the stock market today , Electronic Arts ( EA ) dropped 5% to move back under its 50-day line in heavy volume. The video game maker forecast light revenue in the current fiscal quarter that will end Dec. 31.
Shares of the optical-device maker Lumentum ( LITE ) were higher in morning trade Wednesday after the company missed fiscal-Q1 earnings and sales estimates but gave solid guidance as Apple demand heats up. Shares moved up 3% as they build the right side of a potential base.
After the close, Tesla ( TSLA ) is scheduled to report its own Q3 results . Analysts will look for an update on the pace of Model 3 production, which continues to be a challenge. The consensus estimate for revenue is $2.9 billion, while earnings are expected to be a loss of $2.45 per share. Shares have been disappointing since a solid cup-with-handle breakout on Sept 14., triggering a 7%-8% sell signal. Now, the stock is in the early stage of a new base, finding support at its long-term 200-day line. Shares dropped nearly 3%.
Within the IBD 50 , Alibaba ( BABA ) rallied over 1% early Wednesday, looking to make it five up days in a row. After a harrowing trip below the 50-day line, shares were extended from a 177.10 ascending-base pattern's entry.
On the downside, Paycom Software ( PAYC ) plunged over 6% after providing lighter-than-expected revenue guidance in the current quarter. Shares were fighting for support at their key 50-day support level. Shares were also in danger of triggering a round-trip sell signal from a 73.71 flat-base entry.