Receive press releases from Sundown AI: By Email RSS Feeds: Sundown AI Integrates Chloe, Its AI Automation Layer, with Facebook Messenger Sundown AI Enhances Facebook Members Experience Through Integration with Messenger New York, NY,   Sundown AI announces their integration of Chloe, an Artificial Intelligence automation layer, with Facebook Messenger. This integration allows companies to use Chloe to interact directly with consumers.Chloe is an AI layer that provides automated self service for Facebook or can be used to assist agents via suggested replies. Chloe is built on machine learning, NLP and graph algorithms to implicitly learn rules and states from unstructured historical data. She analyzes and understands sentiment and intent from users, provides contextual and personalized responses, and even triggers actions on the customer's behalf. This functionality is now available via Facebook Messenger.Here are some of the benefits of using Sundown AI’s solutions:As a Self Service AI, Chloe is able to simulate agents to answer customer requests.Work Assignment AI, allows her to route customers to the best agents based on historical data, customer profiles, and agent attributes. This solution improves the customer experience by choosing the agent that would best answer a specific customer’s request across different channels.With Agent Training AI, Chloe is able to model customer behaviors and use these interactions to train the agents. Once the conversation is completed, Chloe is able to identify agents deficiencies and provide feedback to improve their performance.To commemorate this new integration, Sundown AI is offering an exciting promotion for new Chloe and Facebook users. The promotion allows unlimited Chloe usage within Facebook for 3 months, however other conditions apply. You can learn more about this promotion at www.sundown.ai.“Our integration with Facebook Messenger adds an AI automation layer built on NLP, Machine Learning and Graph Algorithms to help businesses grow,” said Fabio Cardenas, President, Sundown AI.About Sundown AI: Sundown AI builds AI Automation Applications that are powered by NLP, graph algorithms and machine learning. Chloe, an AI automation layer, provides companies with business solutions that allow them to simulate agents to answer customer requests, route customers to the best agents and model their behaviors to improve agent training. Learn more at www.sundown.ai. Contact Information