Technical Research on Internet Equities -- Meet Group, YY Inc., Zillow, and Facebook News provided by 06:00   
NEW YORK , Nov. 14,   If you want a Stock Review on MEET, YY, Z, or FB then come over to http://dailystocktracker.com/register/ and sign up for your free customized report. Today, DailyStockTracker.com scans these four equities: The Meet Group Inc. (NASDAQ: MEET), YY Inc. (NASDAQ: YY), Zillow Group Inc. (NASDAQ: Z), and Facebook Inc. (NASDAQ: FB). These companies are part of the Internet Information Providers space, which operates media outlets through the Internet and offers dividend yields that are much higher than average when compared with the wider market. Take a look at the free research reports issued today on DailyStockTracker.com for these stocks by signing up at: http://dailystocktracker.com/register/ 
Meet Group 
On Monday, shares in New Hope, Pennsylvania headquartered The Meet Group Inc. recorded a trading volume of 2.47 million shares, which was higher than their three months average volume of 1.11 million shares. The stock ended the day at $2.23 , declining 2.62% from the last trading session. The Company's shares are trading below their 50-day moving average by 37.73%. Furthermore, shares of Meet, which owns and operates a social network for meeting new people on the Web and on mobile platforms in the US, have a Relative Strength Index (RSI) of 14.45. 
On October 19 th , 2017, Meet has completed its acquisition of Lovoo GmbH. The LOVOO app is the most downloaded dating app in Germany , Switzerland , and Austria combined. The purchase is anticipated to continue the momentum of Meet's mission to meet the universal need for human connection through innovating, acquiring, and building the largest mobile portfolio of brands for meeting new people. 
On November 09 th , 2017, research firm JMP Securities downgraded the Company's stock rating from 'Market Outperform' to 'Market Perform'. Sign up and read the free research report on MEET at: http://dailystocktracker.com/registration/?symbol=MEET 
YY Inc. 
Guangzhou, China headquartered YY Inc.'s stock climbed 1.91%, finishing yesterday's session at $90.60 with a total trading volume of 1.10 million shares. The Company's shares have surged 23.94% over the previous three months and 129.83% since the start of this year. The stock is trading above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages by 5.32% and 43.35%, respectively. Additionally, shares of YY Inc., which through its subsidiaries, operates a live streaming platform in China , have an RSI of 53.82. 
On November 02 nd , 2017, YY Inc. announced plans to release its Q3 2017 financial results on November 14 th , 2017, after market close. The Company will hold a conference call that same day at 8:00 p.m. ET to discuss the financial results. A live and archived webcast of the conference call will be available on the Company's investor relations website. The complimentary research report on YY can be downloaded at: http://dailystocktracker.com/registration/?symbol=YY 
Zillow Group 
Shares in Seattle, Washington headquartered Zillow Group Inc. ended the session 1.06% lower at $39.12 . The stock recorded a trading volume of 873,610 shares. The Company's shares have gained 7.27% on an YTD basis. The stock is trading 3.13% below its 200-day moving average. Moreover, shares of Zillow, which operates real estate and home-related information marketplaces on mobile and the Web in the US, have an RSI of 39.96. 
On October 26 th , 2017, Zillow announced a pledge of $5 million in cash and in-kind contributions over the next five years to address housing insecurity as part of its first social impact program, The Home Project. Through this program, the Company will mobilize its people, platform, and products to help combat housing insecurity as well as partner with non-profit organizations whose missions align with The Home Project goals. Register for free on DailyStockTracker.com and access the latest report on Z at: http://dailystocktracker.com/registration/?symbol=Z 
Facebook 
At the closing bell on Monday, Menlo Park, California headquartered Facebook Inc.'s stock rose 0.17%, finishing at $178.77 . A total volume of 9.45 million shares was traded. The Company's shares have gained 2.90% in the last month, 4.54% over the previous three months, and 55.38% on an YTD basis. The stock is trading 3.18% and 14.81% above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, respectively. Additionally, shares of Facebook, which provides various products to connect and share through mobile devices, personal computers, and other surfaces worldwide, have an RSI of 56.32. 
On November 01 st , 2017, Facebook reported results for the quarter ended September 30 th , 2017. Daily active users were 1.37 billion on average for September 2017, monthly active users were 2.07 billion, and headcount was 23,165. Mobile advertising revenue for Q3 2017 represented approximately 88% of advertising revenue, and capital expenditures were $1.76 billion. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $38.29 billion at the end of Q3 2017. 
On November 02 nd , 2017, research firm Stifel reiterated its 'Buy' rating on the Company's stock with a decrease of the target price from $200 a share to $195 a share. Get free access to your research report on FB at: http://dailystocktracker.com/registration/?symbol=FB 
Daily Stock Tracker: 
Daily Stock Tracker (DST) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. DST has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below. 
DST has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document. 
PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES : 
The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst [for further information on analyst credentials, please email . Rohit Tuli , a CFA® charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The Reviewer has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by DST. DST is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way. 
NO WARRANTY 
DST, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. DST, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, DST, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. 
NOT AN OFFERING 
This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither DST nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://dailystocktracker.com/disclaimer/ 
CONTACT 
For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at: Email: Office Address: 377 Rivonia Boulevard, Rivonia, South Africa CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute.