Health News 'KILLED ON FACEBOOK' Teen ‘drugs gang’ stream their own deaths on Facebook Live as cops shoot them dead from a chasing helicopter 
The teens were laughing and joking just moments before police opened fire from a chasing helicopter in Rio de Janeiro By Holly Christodoulou 7th November 2017, 9:37 pm Updated: 7th November 2017, 9:41 pm Comments THIS is the harrowing moment a suspected drugs gang broadcast their own deaths on Facebook Live when a police helicopter opened fire on their car. 
The four teens were filming themselves in the car when armed officers sprayed them with bullets in a crackdown on trafficking in Rio de Janeiro. CEN Dramatic Facebook Live footage captured the moment teens were shot dead by police 
The Facebook Live footage was shot by one the passengers and shows his pals laughing and joking as music plays in the background. 
But the sound of gunfire drowns out the music and the mobile falls to the ground obscuring the chilling footage. 
It is believed three of the suspects died in the shooting, while a forth was injured. 
Police were later praised for their actions after the footage was later posted online. CEN The footage showed the teens laughing as they travelled in a car CEN It was then obscured as police opened fire from a helicopter 
One viewer said: "Bandits go to hell. I love the police." 
Rio de Janeiro has been plagued by criminal gangs targeting the city's tourist hotspots. 
It was not clear why the police opened fire on the youths without attempting an arrest, or whether their actions were legal. MOST READ IN NEWS Former baseball player Roy 'Doc' Halladay killed in plane crash aged 40 LABOUR DEATH Politician 'took own life after begging to be told what he was accused of' DEATH TRAP Boxing coach FAKES his own execution to help cops prove wife hired hitman killer Space oddity Russian 'born on Mars' says he was sent to Earth to save us from nuke war ‘I DON’T KNOW THIS WOMAN’ Gossip Girl's Ed Westwick denies raping actress Kristina Cohen LADY LUCK Bored housewife wins almost £600,00 from a £1 William Hill accumulator bet 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.