Texas Ag Commissioner Sid Miller shares a racially insensitive, suicide joke on Facebook 1 / 13 Back to Gallery 
On Sunday, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller shared a racially insensitive joke about suicide on Facebook and quickly deleted it from his page. 
PAST INCIDENTS: Miller under fire for tweet calling Clinton the 'C-word' 
The text of the screenshot from Miller's Facebook page read, "My friend was so depressed last night thinking about the economy, wars, jobs, his savings, Social Security, retirement funds, etc., he decided to call the Suicide Lifeline. 
"He got a call center in Pakistan, and when he told them he was suicidal, they got all excited and asked if he could drive a truck." The Facebook post was accompanied by a graphic that read, "Joke of the day." 
Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller lists himself as a "deplorable" in his Twitter bio. Media: San Antonio Express-News 
By 3:50 p.m., the post appeared to have been deleted from Miller's Facebook page . 
The Chron.com team reached out to Miller to ask for a comment regarding the joke's origins and why it was deleted, but have yet to hear back from him. Once we do, we will update this story to include his comments. 
KNOW THE TRUTH: Despite news being fake, Miller continued to spread the report 
After Blanchard shared the screenshot to his followers, a few responded with criticism. 
"It's also about bigotry toward a nation of 192 million people and in particular against those whose work is service to the American economy," Jay Blazek Crossley replied to Blanchard's post . 
Twitter user James Decker also replied saying , "Man, there are some things that aren't to joke about." 
Since his election as agriculture commissioner in 2014, Miller has drawn criticism for a host of actions, including a Facebook post comparing Syrian refugees to rattlesnakes and used state and campaign funds to compete in an out-of-state rodeo, which he agreed to refund the money from his trips and was not charged with any wrongdoing. To see the other controversies Miller has been connected to, go through the photos in the gallery above. 
Heather Leighton is a digital reporter at Chron.com. She considers herself as a Jack(ie) of all trades and covers various topics from entertainment to politics. You can read more of her stories here and follow her on Twitter at @loveheathernoel . More Political News