Tweet 
Several of Texas church shooter Devin Patrick Kelley’s former classmates revealed disturbing viewpoints on the mass shooter who took the lives of more than two dozen parishioners and injured at least 20 more during Sunday’s mass shooting at the First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs . 
According to the Daily Mail , Kelly was branded an “outcast” who exhibited odd behaviors and spent much time on Facebook proselytizing about atheism. What did Kelley’s peers say about him? 
The Daily Mail reported that several former classmates described Kelley as “weird” and an “outcast,” while others attested to Kelley’s social media behaviors, which reportedly included discussing “how people who believe in God were stupid.” 
One former classmate, Patrick Boyce, described Kelley as seeming “depressed” as of late. 
Boyce said, “He was the first atheist I met. He went Air Force after high school, got discharged but I don’t know why. I was just shocked [to hear the news]. Still haven’t quite processed how he could have done that.” 
Another former classmate, Nina Rose Nava, wrote on Facebook, “So were just gonna ignore the fact that we went to school with Devin Kelley, the gun men [sic] in Springfield?” 
She added, “In [sic] in complete shock! I legit just deleted him off my fb cause I couldn’t stand his post. He was always talking about how people who believe in God we’re [sic] stupid and trying to preach his atheism.” 
Another former classmate who commented on Nava’s post and replied, “He shared and posted off the wall stuff!” 
Christopher Longoria, who appears to be another Kelley acquaintance, added, “I removed him off FB for those same reasons! He was being super nagtive all the timd [sic].” 
Michael Goff added, “He was weird but never that damn weird, always posting his Atheist s**t like Nina wrote, but damn he always posted pics of him and his baby – crazy.” 
A former friend on Facebook wrote, “It’s scary to know this psychopath has been in my house. I can’t believe I was friends with this guy and I literally would stay the night at his place when we were kids. I ended up distancing myself from him in high school after he got in an argument with me in school and he tried punching me several times. Dude was crazy man.” 
Nava, in a statement to the Daily Mail, said, “I went to school with him. We had a few conversations here and there. It’s not something I expected from him. He was an outcast but not a loner. He was popular among other outcast. I haven’t spoke to him since high school.” 
The Daily Mail reported that before Kelley’s Facebook profile was deleted, he had shared a photo of an AR-15-style firearm and captioned it, “She’s a bad b****.”