Irene Falcone's business started off as a Facebook page. Photo: James Brickwood 
Her Facebook page became a blog and then a fully fledged e-commerce website and in September Nourished Life was purchased by BWX for $20 million. 
Falcone attributes much of Nourished Life's success to the reach of the social media giant with Nourished Life's Facebook page continuing to drive sales through its almost 220,000 followers. 
Data provided exclusively by Facebook to Fairfax Media show the extent to which Australian small businesses are creating Facebook-based enterprises. 
Analysis by researchers Morning Consult for Facebook of more than 1000 Australian small businesses shows more than one in three small and medium-sized businesses on Facebook built their business on the platform. Advertisement 
Of those businesses that started elsewhere and turned to the social network for added boost, 46 per cent of SMBs on Facebook say they have been able to hire more employees due to growth in demand since joining the platform and 61 per cent of SMBs on Facebook say they have increased sales because of the platform 
Facebook is looking to increase these numbers. You will now receive updates from My Small Business Newsletter My Small Business Newsletter 
Get the latest news and updates emailed straight to your inbox. By submitting your email you are agreeing to Fairfax Media's terms and conditions and privacy policy . 
"Australia is a really rich SMB market," Facebook's new head of SMB for Australia and New Zealand, Kaylie Smith said. "We are enabling a different kind of commerce, enabling Australian small businesses to connect with markets globally." 
Facebook will not provide numbers on exactly how many Australian small businesses use Facebook but Smith says 210 million people around the world are connected to a businesss in Australia through Facebook. 
These connections, which are classed as any kind of activity with a business page, are primarily coming from the US, UK, Canada, India and Pakistan. 
Worldwide, more than 1.6 billion people on Facebook are connected to a business. 
We are enabling a different kind of commerce, enabling Australian small businesses to connect with markets globally. Kaylie Smith 
This accords with Morning Consult's research, which found 59 per cent of Australian SMBs on Facebook believe the platform allows them to sell products or services in other cities, states, or countries. 
Smith says Facebook is introducing new tools to make it easier for people to grow and find new customers wherever they are in the world. 
This includes dynamic language optimisation where businesses can place multiple languages within one ad set and Facebook matches the right language to the right user and multi-country lookalikes where businesses can create an international "lookalike" to find their best customers in a combination of countries of their choosing. 
"We are really exploring and working on building cross-border and borderless platforms," says Smith. 
"Pay to play" or paid content is an increasing focus for the social media giant but Smith says Facebook has not limited the organic reach of business pages in order to encourage the use of paid content on the platform. 
"We haven't heard that," she says. "We recommend good content and updating your page regularly. If you are looking to promote or sell or grow your business, that's when paid options come in." 
Falcone's experience of using Facebook has been positive. 
"You don't need a multinational advertising budget to compete anymore – you can do it yourself on social media," she says. "But your message and your brand need to be authentic." 
​Follow MySmallBusiness on Twitter , Facebook and LinkedIn More Articles