Oct. 30, 2017 05:07PM EST Photo via Joburger on Facebook. This Guy Is Trying to “Unite” South Africans on Facebook, But He’s Not Doing Anything to Solve Racism 
"Internet sensation" Joburger is asking race groups to ask other races questions they've always wanted to ask. It's cute and funny, but this won't solve South Africa's problems. A London-based South African by the name Joburger on Facebook , real name Louwrence van Niekerk, has become an "internet sensation" after he asked different race groups to ask others questions they have always wanted to ask each other. For instance, he calls for black people to ask white people questions they have always wanted to ask. It went incredibly well, with a lot of the questions being hilarious, and apparently "heart-warming." 
Black people have asked questions like why do white people like walking barefooted, while white people ask black people questions like "what's the deal with the sand I see in 2L Coke bottles?" You know, those types of questions. Coloured people and Indian people were also put on the pedestal. 
It's been really funny, but some people have labeled van Niekerk a "revolutionary" and there's been mentions that his posts are fighting racism and bringing South Africans together. Joburger himself expressed his happiness at "uniting South Africans" in one comment. During an interview with eNCA , van Niekerk gave his reasons for staring the series of posts. "I hate racism. I hate it," he said. He went on to say in London where he lives, "We don't see skin color here. At all. There's no such thing as skin color." Oh puhlease! 🙄 
You can't fight racism by not seeing skin color, because racism was started on the basis of skin color. And you can't solve racism with love or unity. Van Niekerk's approach is similar to thinking us singing "Kumbaya" with white people will solve racism. 
Racism isn't just hatred. As a black person, I'm not bothered by not being loved by a white person. I want justice. I want to have generational wealth. I want land. I want to get paid as much as my white counterparts. 
Love is not going to solve the poverty so many of black people live in, in dire conditions in townships, while white people languish in posh suburbs, because they benefited from systemic racism. Love is not going to prevent the police from firing rubber bullets at poor black students protesting high university fees. White farmers are blocking the roads illegal and police are not shooting rubber Bullets but if it was african youth, yho!!! @MbalulaFikile — Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) 30 October 2017 Lawlessness from any quarter is unacceptable and should be condemned. In this instance you might be right, Police lowered the guard. https://t.co/1VGMiLTlZ1 — RSA Police Minister (@MbalulaFikile) 30 October 2017 As I write this, a group of white South Africans have shut down national roads protesting a "white genocide." They are allowed their right to protest without dodging rubber bullets and being called names the way we were at Fees Must Fall . Some are even waving the old South African apartheid flag. Because: white privilege. What van Niekerk is doing is cool, it's funny, but that's all it is. It won't solve the problem of racism in South Africa. So stop making as if there's more to it than it being a joke. Damola Durosomo 10m 
Watch Tiwa Savage and Wizkid turn up at the Kuti's New Afrika Shrine in their latest music video for "Ma Lo." 
A gift from the afrobeats gods: 
Two of the genre's biggest names, Tiwa Savage and Wizkid ,dropped the music video for their latest collaboration "Ma Lo" earlier today, and it's lit. The track is the uncontested standout from Tiwa Savage's latest EP Sugarcane Sugarcane , and the duos' second collaboration after last year's "Bad." The song features production from heavyweight producer Spellz . 
The Meji Alabi -directed video, sees the Nigerian stars head to the Kuti family's New Afrika Shrine in Lagos for an intensely live party, packed with friends, dancers, and other really well dressed people. Tiwa hits some choreographed dance moves, while Wizkid hangs about smoking, chilling and looking cool. 
The video matches the songs fiery energy as Tiwa and Wizkid trade lines back and forth. It's a certified party banger.