This Facebook feature could help prevent suicides by vulnerable users The potentially life-saving feature is not well-known Share     
A little known Facebook tool could be used to help those at risk of suicide. 
Facebook users are sharing details on the trick online in a bid to help those in need. 
Although not widely known, the social network possesses features which allow you to highlight concerning posts. 
If, for example, a friend posted a status or picture which caused you to be concerned for them, a hidden button allows you to report the post to Facebook - who will then contact the friend with details of help and support. 
The option, available under the ‘report’ tab next to all posts, allows users to flag posts as showing ‘someone harming themselves or planning to harm themselves’ as the reason for the report. Read More Thousands of free meals given to needy children during summer 
Facebook gives several examples of posts which may suggest someone will harm themselves, including: “self-inflicted wound, weapon held to head, suicide note, promotes eating disorder” 
When a post is reported, the profile it was posted to is sent a message with contact details of a suicide prevention hot line and website. 
It reads: “Hi, a friend recently let us know that something you posted made them concerned about you. 
“We want to make sure you have the resources you need if you’re going through something difficult. 
“Lifeline and Befriends offer confidential support and other resources day and night.” Read More 
Whoever flags a post will also be warned that if they believe their friend is in immediate danger then they should contact authorities for help. 
The feature also allows you to send personalised messages to people who you’re concerned about. 
By reporting their profile page, rather than an individual post, Facebook can send a message which reads: “Hi, this post makes me think that you might be going through something difficult. 
“Are you OK? If you want help, I’m here. You could also contact a hot line for help. 
“Here are some numbers to call.” Read More One year since teen cancer hero Hannah Lyson was honoured at Your Heroes Awards 
The message, which can be customised, includes a link to a list of suicide-prevention hot lines based on the person’s location. 
It also has an option to remind you to send a follow up message to check your friend is still OK a few days later. Helplines and support groups 
The NHS Choices website lists the following help lines and support networks for people to talk to. Samaritans (116 123) operates a 24-hour service available every day of the year. If you prefer to write down how you’re feeling, or if you’re worried about being overheard on the phone, you can email Samaritans at jo@samaritans.org. Childline (0800 1111) runs a helpline for children and young people in the UK. Calls are free and the number won’t show up on your phone bill. PAPYRUS (0800 068 41 41) is a voluntary organisation supporting teenagers and young adults who are feeling suicidal. Depression Alliance is a charity for people with depression. It doesn’t have a helpline, but offers a wide range of useful resources and links to other relevant information. Students Against Depression is a website for students who are depressed, have a low mood or are having suicidal thoughts. Bullying UK is a website for both children and adults affected by bullying. Any adult concerned about the welfare of a child or young person can call the NSPCC helpline for free, 24/7, on 0808 800 5000. Children can call Childline at any time on 0800 111, visit www.childline.org.uk or download the ‘For Me’ app. 
To donate by text send a message to 70744 which reads ‘NSPCC 20’ to donate £20 ‘NSPCC 12’ to donate £12 or ‘NSPCC 4’ to donate £4. 
Texts costs include your donation plus your standard network rate. 
The NSPCC receive 100% of your donation. Like us on Facebook