It will take more than any tough talk out of Washington to hold down these “Benjamin Button” companies.
Facebook FB, +0.11% Alphabet GOOGL, -0.01% GOOG, -0.05% and Twitter TWTR, -2.96% will be grilled by congressional intelligence committees Wednesday on the use of their platforms by Russian operatives to try to sway the presidential election. 
If their stocks decline because of bombastic questioning, it will be a buying opportunity for investors. The truth is that politicians in Washington, D.C. aren’t a big threat to their business for three reasons. 
1. These tech giants have the politicians outgunned. “The current administration doesn’t have the will, the resources or the IQ to take on big tech,” says Scott Galloway, a marketing professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business and author of “The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google.” “Big tech is so much more powerful, smarter and well-resourced. The current administration is totally outgunned.”
Wednesday’s faceoff comes when lawyers for Alphabet, Facebook and Twitter are scheduled to appear before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence at 9:30 a.m. and before the House Intelligence Committee at 2 p.m. the same day.
Read: Russia-backed content reached 126 million Americans, Facebook now says 
2. Voters love Facebook and Alphabet, plus Apple AAPL, +1.39% and Amazon. These companies aren’t perfect, but they create a lot of benefits beyond the services they provide. They are a big source of jobs, economic growth and national pride. So politicians may be reluctant to take them on and kill the golden goose with heavy regulation. “Amazon is the No. 1 recruiter out of my class,” says Galloway. “Big tech companies are driving up real estate values and 401(k)s. They are a vehicle to extract value from other nations.” 
Galloway acknowledges big issues surrounding privacy, the potential weaponization of their platforms by foreigners in elections, anticompetitive behavior the disruptions they cause to some sectors, which costs jobs. “But on balance, we register a lot of benefits.” 
Read: Scott Galloway says Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook will all go away within 50 years 
3. This trio of companies are “Benjamin Button businesses.” Galloway’s nickname comes from the age-in-reverse character in the 2008 movie, “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.” 
These companies get better with use, which is sort of like aging in reverse. This creates impressive and sustainable growth for them (which explains their power to take on government). But it’s also great for investors. All of these companies have nicely outperformed the S&P 500 SPX, +0.09% over the past several years.
How do they age in reverse? Consider the traffic app Waze, for example, owned by Alphabet. “The moment I begin using Waze, my phone updates the traffic pattern and Waze gets better for everyone,” says Galloway. 
It’s the same with Google, Alphabet’s main business, which handles three billion searches a day. “Every time I use Google it gets one three-billionth better. It makes the algorithm smarter in terms of prioritizing content,” he says.
Likewise, the more you use Facebook, Amazon.com AMZN, -0.50% Priceline PCLN, +1.71% and Trip Advisor TRIP, +0.40% the more they learn about you. This helps them learn what ads and products to put in front of you. 
Read: Facebook earnings: Two ways the social-networking titan can grow even larger 
In contrast, old-economy companies like Ford F, +1.40% General Motors GM, -0.90% Caterpillar CAT, -0.51% Procter & Gamble PG, +0.08% and Colgate CL, +1.81% all make stuff that declines in value shortly after it leaves the factory. 
The upshot here: Some of the best buy-and-hold companies are Benjamin Button companies. A related lesson is that companies relying on consumer brands for their growth and protective moats may face growing problems, says Galloway. Google, Facebook and Amazon have usurped much of their brand power because the new-economy companies play such a big role in deciding what products consumers see. 
A Benjamin Button portfolio manager This isn’t just a theoretical concept from academia. Benjamin Button companies are a favorite of Alex Umansky who manages the Baron Fifth Avenue Growth Fund BFTHX, +0.40% He calls them “winner take most” companies because of the power that comes from aging in reverse. “The dominant companies just kill their industries. They get unprecedented scale,” he says. 
Five of his 10 largest holdings are Benjamin Button companies. This may help explain why his fund beats its benchmark by 2.1 percentage points, annualized over the past three years, according to Morningstar. 
Amazon.com, for example, ranks as his top holding at about 14% of his portfolio. “Amazon has 55% market share of all product search. That’s mind-blowing,” says Umansky. “They use that to learn more about you and to understand what you’re looking for and so they can personalize everything you see.” Alibaba BABA, +1.82% his second-largest position, does the same thing in China. 
Read: Which stock is a better buy — Google or Amazon? 
Facebook is his third-biggest position at about 5% of the fund. “Every new person that comes in makes Facebook that much more valuable,” he says. Plus Facebook gives advertisers instant feedback on how their ads are doing, so they can be immediately fixed if necessary. This corrects an age-old problem with advertising. “Half of advertising is extremely productive and half is garbage. The problem is, you never know which is which. Facebook will tell you within hours which one is which,” says Umanksy. “They do this like no one else. There is no other platform that can compete with Facebook.”
Alphabet is fourth in his portfolio at 4%. It ages in reveres by learning a lot about you, because of a simple reality. “When users are searching, this is the only time they are being truthful because they want to get the results right,” says Umansky. 
Priceline rounds out the Benjamin Button companies among his top holdings, at No. 10. 
The big risks Benjamin Button companies are not without risk. They face two big ones, says Galloway. 
The first is regulation, just not from Washington. Instead, it may come from Europe, he predicts. That’s because Europeans bear all the costs created by these companies (privacy issues, antitrust problems and potential abuse of their platforms to sway elections). But the region sees fewer of the benefits like jobs, economic growth and wealth creation. So Europeans politicians are freer to go after them. 
Galloway sees the potential for a $10 billion fine against Benjamin Button companies in Europe, or worse. “There’s also a chance that one or more European nation outright bans one of them,” he says. 
The other risk is each other. Galloway, for example, is bearish on the Benjamin Button company Snap SNAP, -2.17% despite the recent stock decline, because Facebook has it in its cross hairs.
“We were all hoping Snap would be the Facebook of video,” says Galloway. “But the Facebook of video is Facebook. It’s clear Mark Zuckerberg has religious fervor around wiping Snap from the planet. Facebook is strangling Snap.” 
Umansky, at the Baron Fifth Avenue Growth Fund, has been buying Snap but only gingerly. It was recently just a 0.5% position in his fund. 
Read: Sell Snap and these 4 other scary stocks 
Michael Brush is a Manhattan-based financial writer. At the time of publication, he had no positions in any stocks mentioned in this column. He has suggested AMZN, BABA, GOOGL, F, GM and CAT in his stock newsletter Brush Up on Stocks .