UpVote 17: One unhappy year in Trump's America By Rowland Manthorpe Facebook This is what you need to know about those Russian Facebook ads 
Most Facebook adverts purchased by Russian trolls had a clickthrough rate of more than five per cent. The average Facebook ad only has a clickthrough rate of 0.9 per cent By Matthew Reynolds Thursday 2 November 2017 
Not all the Russian-linked propaganda was targeted at pro-Trump Facebook users. This one promoted a Bernie Sanders colouring book 
US lawmakers have released a handful of Facebook ads bought by Russian-linked trolls and directly targeted to US citizens during the 2016 presidential election. The ads, which range from Bernie Sanders colouring books to claims that Hillary Clinton is supported by Satan, are just a tiny percentage of the more than 3,300 that were purchased on Facebook by the Russian Internet Research Agency between June 2015 and August 2017. The adverts reached 126 million Americans. Advertisement 
This disclosure is part of the Senate Intelligence Committee's ongoing investigation into how Russia used social media to influence the result of the election and undermine the democratic process. Representatives from Facebook, Google and Twitter are being questioned by the Committee in an effort to understand whether they could have done more to stem the flow of divisive and false information released and promoted by their platforms. 
Here's what you need to know about the latest disclosures. Facebook just announced its biggest advertising profits yet 
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg wasn't at Tuesday's hearing in Washington DC. Neither was Sheryl Sandberg, the company's chief operating officer. They left the job to Facebook's general council, Colin Stretch. Read next As Congress circles, Facebook and Google scramble for transparency By James Temperton 
Zuckerberg and Sandberg did take the time, however, to lead a call with investors updating them on the company's latest financial results Advertisement 
Last year, Facebook made a profit of $4.7 billion – up 79 per cent on last year. Its total revenue was $10.3 billion, up 47 per cent on last year. The vast majority of that – $10.1 billion, to be precise – came from advertising. The company made just $186 million, that's just under two per cent of its overall revenue, from non-advertising activities. It's pretty clear where these Russian ads came from 
On Tuesday, the US government released the details of 14 adverts placed on Facebook by Russian-backed actors. Metadata released also details when the ads were placed and how much they cost. 
All of the ads were paid for in Russian rubles, and most of them were created close to midnight or in the very early morning, Pacific Time. Moscow and St Petersburg are around ten hours ahead of Silicon Valley. That puts the timing of the ad placements slap-bang in the middle of the working day. Advertisement 
The metadata accompanying the ads also reveals who was they were targeted at. Read next It’s a really bad idea for Facebook to hide journalism from news feeds By Matthew Reynolds 
Propaganda published on Facebook by Russian PR firms in an attempt to affect the 2016 US presidential election 
This particular ad was aimed at people living in the US that followed or had liked pages associated with the following people and topics: Laura Ingraham, God, Ron Paul, Christianity, Bill O'Reilly, Andrew Breitbart, the Bible, Jesus, Conservatism in the United States. 
This particular ad only reached 71 people, and generated 14 clicks. Each ad, depending on its message, was targeted at a very specific audience. In this case, it's conservative Christian voters, a core section of the Trump demographic. On both sides of the political spectrum 
But these Russian ads weren't just targeted towards the right of the political spectrum. This promoted post advertised a counter-protest against the Westboro Baptist Church, which is known for its hate campaigns against the LGBT community. Read next Is tbh, Facebook's new teen app, as healthy as its founders claim? By Matthew Reynolds 
The Russian actors targeted the ad at people in Kansas who had selected the following interests on Facebook: Bernie Sanders, LGBT rights, LGBT community, Hillary Clinton or same-sex marriage. It cost just over $50 to place and was seen by over 4,798 people. 
The people behind this campaign weren't going for a scattergun approach. Each advert is targeted at a very specific group of people with shared beliefs. The ability to target in this way is at the core of how Facebook sells ads. A lot of people clicked on them 
Even though some of these adverts reached a relative small number of people, the proportion of those people who actually clicked on the ads is high. Alexia Madrigal broke down the figures in a couple of tweets here . Most of the ads had clickthrough rates of more than five per cent, with some of the most successful ads being clicked on by almost a quarter of the people who saw them. Advertisement 
The average Facebook ad only has a clickthrough rate of 0.9 per cent. There is way more to come 
These 14 ads are just a tiny proportion of Facebook ads placed in the run-up to the 2016 election. This document from the Select Committee on Intelligence details just how many ads are being looked at as part of this investigation. According to figures provided by Facebook, there were 3,393 ads placed by the Russian Internet Research Agency (IRA), through 470 IRA-associated accounts and 120 IRA pages. The company says that 11.4 million Americans definitely saw a Russian IRA advertisement, but as many as 126 million were likely to have seen an advert. It's not just Facebook 
Twitter also provided the handles of some 36,746 Russian-linked bots who tweeted a total of 1.4 million times in the two months before the election. The entire list is 65 pages long. Twitter estimates that these tweets were viewed 288 million times . 
On YouTube, Google found 1,108 videos uploaded by Russian-linked accounts, netting 309,000 views altogether.