News Thug's sick Facebook post from COURT after he threatened to throw toddler out of window Josh Ingram made a post on Facebook from Grimsby Crown Court where he was sentenced for threatening to kill a young woman and her son Share Joshua Ingram leaves Grimsby Crown Court minutes after a taunting post, inset, appeared on his Facebook page (Image: Grimsby Telegraph) Share Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
A grinning thug from Grimsby posted a sick Facebook post as he sat in court waiting to be sentenced for assaulting a woman and threatening to throw her terrified toddler out of a window. 
Josh Ingram, 18, of Gilbey Road, joked and larked about with his supporters outside Grimsby Crown Court after he escaped jail, despite admitting charges of making threats to kill, assault and causing criminal damage. 
But moments earlier, while still in court, Ingram made an abusive post on his Facebook page which appeared to be directed at his victim. 
Writing a status update at 12.48pm from the court building, Ingram wrote: "Hahaha what a trampy liarr, still laughinggg like alwaysss (sic)." 
Swaggering Ingram, described by his own solicitor as a "stupid young man", walked free from court at 1.10pm after being given a suspended prison sentence and a life ban from contacting his victims. The post on Joshua Ingram's Facebook page before he was freed at Grimsby Crown Court 
A woman who appeared to be a relative later replied to his status, posting: "Bit daft writing this don't you think?" Read More Taxi driver will never work nights again after terrifying attack on his car by 20 youths 
The court was told how Ingram had shoved the toddler's head into a wall, put a knife against his mum's face and tried to smother her with a pillow during the terrifying ordeal on May 7, in which he told them both they would die. A smiling Joshua Ingram leaves Grimsby Crown Court after admitting threatening to kill a toddler and his mum (Image: Grimsby Telegraph) Read More Poignant service marks start of 2017 Poppy Appeal in Grimsby 
During the court case, Craig Lowe, prosecuting, told Grimsby Crown Court that Ingram was at the home of his ex-girlfriend when his mood changed and he became very "nasty" towards her very young son. 
He shoved the toddler's head against a wall, causing him to scream, and told the woman: "You watch. I'm going to go mad." 
Ingram "smashed up stuff" and threw the boy's rocking horse across the room. The boy was screaming and shaking. Joshua Ingram leaves Grimsby Crown Court. 
Ingram told the woman: "I'm going to throw him down the stairs. I'm going to throw him out of the window." 
The teenager later grabbed a knife and looked "so angry" before shouting: "I'm going to kill you both. You're both going to die." 
Ingram put the knife to the woman's face and told the boy: "I'm going to kill you." 
In mitigation Richard Hackfath, said Ingram was completely ill-equipped to deal with the responsibilities of his first proper relationship. 
"He accepts his behaviour was completely beyond the pale," said Mr Hackfath. 
"It was terrible behaviour. This is a stupid young man who has behaved appallingly badly." Read More 
Ingram was given a two-year suspended custodial sentence, 150 hours' unpaid work, a three-month curfew, two years of supervision and 30 days' rehabilitation. 
He was also given a lifelong restraining order banning him from contacting the mother and her son. Locked up in October