Thug's sick Facebook post from COURT after he threatened to throw toddler out of window 
A grinning thug from Grimsby posted a sick Facebook post as he sat in court waiting to be sentenced for assaulting a woman and threatening to throw her terrified toddler out of a window. Josh Ingram, 18, of Gilbey Road, joked and larked about with his supporters outside Grimsby Crown Court after he escaped jail, despite admitting charges of making threats to kill, assault and causing criminal damage. But moments earlier, while still in court, Ingram made an abusive post on his Facebook page which appeared to be directed at his victim. Writing a status update at 12.48pm from the court... read more Sheffield tree campaigner: I don't regret Facebook post that could see me jailed 
A Sheffield tree campaigner, who could be facing up to two years in prison after being found in contempt of court over a Facebook post he made that encouraged others to break a High Court injunction, says he does not regret what he wrote. Calvin Payne... Sheffield tree campaigner: I don't regret Facebook post that could see me jailed 
A Sheffield tree campaigner, who could be facing up to two years in prison after being found in contempt of court over a Facebook post he made that encouraged others to break a High Court injunction, says he does not regret what he wrote. Calvin Payne... Examiner , 20 October 2017 in Yorkshire & Humber Smirking thug who threatened to throw terrified toddler out of window and kill boy's mum 
This is the smirking teenager who threatened to throw a toddler out of a window during a horrific incident in which he also threatened to kill the little boy's mum in front of him. Joshua Ingram shoved the boy's head into a wall, put a knife against... 'Why wasn't he jailed for sick Facebook attack on my heroic son?' 
'Why wasn't he jailed for sick Facebook attack on my heroic son?' Monica Kershaw with a picture of her late soldier son Chris The grieving mother of Bradford war hero Private Chris Kershaw has reacted with anger at a Court’s decision not to jail a man... The Telegraph & Argus , 10 October 2012 in Yorkshire & Humber Probe into offensive Facebook post 
Police are investigating an offensive message about the Glasgow bin lorry tragedy which was posted on Facebook, apparently by a woman in York. It followed the arrest of a 19-year-old man from Sunderland, who posted a crass message on Twitter following... Beverley Guardian , 30 December 2014 in Yorkshire & Humber