Health News FACECROOK Thug who threatened to throw toddler out of window makes sick Facebook post from court as he awaits sentencing 
Josh Ingram, 18, updated his status to 'Hahaha what a trampy liarr, still laughinggg like alwaysss (sic)' in an apparent attack on the mother of the child By Carl Stroud 31st October 2017, 10:40 am Updated: 31st October 2017, 10:40 am Comments A THUG, who threatened to throw a terrified toddler out of a window, made a sick Facebook post from court while awaiting sentencing. 
Josh Ingram updated his status to “Hahaha what a trampy liarr, still laughinggg like alwaysss (sic)" in an apparent blast at the mother of the child, who he had attacked. BPM MEDIA Thug Josh Ingram made a sick Facebook post from court while awaiting sentencing for threatening to throw a toddler out of a window 
But, just 20 minutes later the 18-year-old walked free despite admitting charges of making threats to kill, assault and causing criminal damage. 
Afterwards Ingram, described by his own solicitor as a "stupid young man", was seen joking with supporters outside Grimsby Crown Court having received a suspended prison sentence and a life ban from contacting his victims. 
A woman who appeared to be a relative later replied to his update, writing: "Bit daft writing this don't you think?" 
The court was told how Ingram had shoved the toddler's head into a wall, put a knife against his mum's face and tried to smother her with a pillow during the terrifying ordeal on May 7, in which he told them both they would die. BPM MEDIA Just 20 minutes after posting this status update Ingram walked free from court 
During the court case, Craig Lowe, prosecuting, told how Ingram was at the home of his ex-girlfriend when his mood changed and he became very "nasty" towards her very young son. 
He shoved the toddler's head against a wall, causing him to scream, and told the woman: "You watch. I'm going to go mad." 
Ingram "smashed up stuff" and threw the boy's rocking horse across the room. The boy was screaming and shaking. 
Ingram told the woman: "I'm going to throw him down the stairs. I'm going to throw him out of the window." BPM MEDIA fterwards Ingram, described by his own solicitor as a 'stupid young man', was seen joking with supporters outside Grimsby Crown Court 
The teenager later grabbed a knife and looked "so angry" before shouting: "I'm going to kill you both. You're both going to die." 
Ingram put the knife to the woman's face and told the boy: "I'm going to kill you." 
In mitigation Richard Hackfath, said Ingram was completely ill-equipped to deal with the responsibilities of his first proper relationship. 
"He accepts his behaviour was completely beyond the pale," said Mr Hackfath. BPM MEDIA The court heard how Ingram shoved the toddler's head against a wall before saying: 'I'm going to throw him out of the window' 
"It was terrible behaviour. This is a stupid young man who has behaved appallingly badly." 
Ingram was given a two-year suspended custodial sentence, 150 hours' unpaid work, a three-month curfew, two years of supervision and 30 days' rehabilitation. 
He was also given a lifelong restraining order banning him from contacting the mother and her son. MOST READ IN NEWS North Korea 'nuclear base COLLAPSES killing 200' amid radioactive leak fears HAD SON TOO MANY Mum helps naked stranger in Halloween makeup to bed thinking it's her son MAY'S SINNER CIRCLE Sex pest dossier names SIX Cabinet ministers and senior allies of PM HALLOWEEN HORROR Gunmen in masks use automatic weapons to open fire at illegal London rave DEEP BLUE Experts stumble on mysterious hole in the Great Barrier Reef and are VERY excited CONSPIRACY THEORY Arrest warrant issued for Rose McGowan as she claims plot to 'silence me' 
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us at or call 0207 782 4368 . We pay for videos too. Click here to upload yours.