Tiger Pistol Integrates with Yext to Help Brands Localize Their Facebook & Instagram Advertising [November 03, 2017] Tiger Pistol Integrates with Yext to Help Brands Localize Their Facebook & Instagram Advertising 
AUSTIN, Texas , Nov. 3, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Local social advertising platform Tiger Pistol, a Facebook global marketing partner, today announces an integration with Yext, bringing the power of localized Facebook and Instagram advertising to businesses using Yext. Thanks to this new relationship, Yext users will now be able to use Tiger Pistol's platform via the Yext App Directory to run thousands of localized Instagram and Facebook campaigns leveraging the Yext Knowledge Manager to create and maintain digital knowledge within Tiger Pistol. Over time this relationship will allow Tiger Pistol users to leverage additional Yext content and data for automated campaigns linked to menu updates, store events and more. 
This new Tiger Pistol network capability for the first time allows brands to maintain brand control and consistency while empowering local teams to personalize their own store campaigns. Using Yext's location data, brands can execute Facebook at the local level through Tiger Pistol, with the relevant Facebook Ad Objective, budget, creative, copy, audiences and geographic overlays for each location. Additionally, brands with multiple locations such as automotive retailers, real estate agents and restaurants can share learnings, insights and best practices, while making it easy for locations to participate. Specifically this new capability means individual campaigns can run separately for each location: Brands can control the locations for which they run campaigns. /li> Campaigns are run off of individual location Facebook pages, with geographic and audience targeting unique to each location, while leveraging data from the brand's corporate office. Fully customized copy allows brands to provide templates that can be localized or even empower locations to add their own copy spotlighting unique offers. Customized creative provides an additional layer of local flavor, as businesses can add images showing the actual storefront, employees and neighborhood. Brands can create, publish and fund at the corporate level or pass along publishing and funding responsibilities to the local level. "The addition of Tiger Pistol to the Yext App Directory allows businesses to use their location-specific digital knowledge stored in Yext to fuel social advertising," said Marc Ferrentino , Chief Strategy Officer of Yext. "We're excited to see how Tiger Pistol leverages the power of Yext to serve local businesses." 
"With the addition of Yext, we're now making it easier than ever for brands to run Facebook & Instagram ads across all of their locations," said Steve Hibberd , co-founder and CEO of Tiger Pistol. "A strong social media presence is key for the growth of local businesses. By automating the process of setting up a data-backed, optimized social campaign, brands will now have the tools to drive growth across all of their locations." 
"Historically, our local marketing has been focused on traditional mediums such as printed signage, umbrellas, and giveaways," said John Kelly , National 'On Premise' Group Business Manager of Asahi Premium Beverages, a Tiger Pistol customer. "With the Tiger Pistol platform, we can deploy Peroni campaigns through our distribution channels which allows us to deliver more relevant campaigns, track performance, gain valuable audience insights, and maximise share of voice." 
About Tiger Pistol Tiger Pistol is Facebook Marketing Partner, powering social media campaigns for small and medium businesses. Launched in 2010, Tiger Pistol has helped tens of thousands of SMBs create, deploy, manage and optimize high-performance Facebook and Instagram ads at scale. Learn more at www.tigerpistol.com . 
Press Contact Clarity PR for Tiger Pistol646-934-6924 View original content with multimedia: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/tiger-pistol-integrates-with-yext-to-help-brands-localize-their-facebook--instagram-advertising-300549205.html 
SOURCE Tiger Pistol