Facebook announced: 
As part of that continuing commitment, we will soon be creating a portal to enable people on Facebook to learn which of the Internet Research Agency Facebook Pages or Instagram accounts they may have liked or followed between January 2015 and August 2017. This tool will be available for use by the end of the year in the Facebook Help Center. 
It is important that people understand how foreign actors tried to sow division and mistrust using Facebook before and after the 2016 US election. That’s why as we have discovered information, we have continually come forward to share it publicly and have provided it to congressional investigators. And it’s also why we’re building the tool we are announcing today. (Continued Below) 
The Facebook tool is not available yet, but it could be a valuable self-help tool that will prevent people from being fooled by Russian fake news and pro-Trump propaganda. 
In a statement provided to PoliticusUSA, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) called Facebook’s announcement a positive step, “During our open hearing with Facebook, Twitter and Google earlier this month, we asked them to notify their users if they had been targeted by or seen content as part of the Russian active measures campaign. The move by Facebook to allow users to see if they liked or followed pages created by the Kremlin-linked Internet Research Agency is a very positive step. We look forward to additional steps by the companies to improve transparency concerning Russian abuse of their platforms, and urge them to furnish a joint report on how Russia used these platforms to sow discord and influence the election.” 
One of the best ways to combat foreign interference in US elections is for social media companies not to allow their platforms to be hijacked in this manner. The second step in combatting foreign interference in US elections is for people to be able to check the source of what they are reading. Facebook is about to make it a lot easier to clear the Russia propaganda out of their newsfeed. 
Trump was already having a rough Thanksgiving, and things just got worse for this president.