Trump advisor George Papadopoulos deactivated his Facebook after he was questioned by FBI Trump advisor Papadopoulos deactivated Facebook after FBI probe facebook Onetime Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos — who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about meetings with Russian nationals — got a new cell phone number and created a new Facebook account after he was interviewed by federal investigators in February, according to newly unsealed documents. (Linkedin.com)   5:43 PM 
When being investigated by the FBI for possible ties to hostile foreign entities, you don't exactly scream "innocent" by deactivating your Facebook account and ditching your cellphone number. 
Onetime Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos — who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about meetings with Russian nationals — got a new cellphone number and created a new Facebook account after he was interviewed by federal investigators in February, according to newly unsealed documents . 
In the FBI documents , it's revealed that Papadopoulos, who was originally interviewed by the FBI on Jan. 27, lied to the investigators about the timeline of his meeting with a Russian professor with “dirt” on Hillary Clinton's "thousands of emails." 
Papadopoulos claimed he had the meeting before he officially joined the Trump campaign in March 2016. 
Here’s what we know about Donald Trump’s ties to Russia 
But the newly unsealed court documents claim that Papadopoulos actually met with someone who he believed to have "connections to high-level Russian government officials" who could help him arrange a "foreign police trip to Russia" after he joined the campaign. 
Papadopoulos was interviewed by the FBI a second time on Feb. 16, where he doubled down on his willingness to cooperate with the federal probe. 
"The next day, on or about February 17, 2017, defendant Papadopoulos deactivated his Facebook account, which he had maintained since approximately August 2005 and which contained information about communications he had with the Professor and the Russian Connection," the unsealed document reveals . "Shortly after he deactivated his account, Papadopoulos created a new Facebook account that did not contain the communications with the Professor and the Russian Connection. On or about February 23, 20 17, defendant Papadopoulos ceased using his cellphone number and began using a new number." 
If the wording in the brief is to be taken word for word, and Papadopoulos deactivated his Facebook account instead of deleting it, then any communication he may have had with anyone — like, say, a Russian operative — would still be available to the FBI and only a quick reactivation away.