too late! They ALREADY ARE Vic Pittman 
Franken works tirelessly for the country he loves ….. unfortunately it isn’t the US. Adalwolf 
Franken should be hanged for treason. Adalwolf 
Ever notice that every unconstitutional, anti American piece of legislation that is introduced in the US congress is authored by or fully supported by the duel citizenship Israelis? Why are they in our congress? Professor Elliott 
The question posed is, “Are the days of the free and open Internet numbered?,” but rather the question should be posed with regards to folks like the Jewish Senator Al Franken, “are the days of the seditionist, lying, traitorous Jew within the inner structures of the U.S. government numbered ?” Why do we consistently find that the greatest advocates of global internet free-speech censorship programs are Jews? Why is it that under every little free-speech, free-thought censorship rock we find a little cowardly Jewish nerd-turd such as Al Franken? It is because collectively, historically, politically, and religiously, the Jews have a lot to hide. The global conscious understanding among Gentiles that Israel and treasonous American Jews in high places were behind the 9-11 attacks would be enough to instill great terror in their hearts over the widespread conscious understanding of that fact, but their deep historical and religious fraud goes much, much farther than that, and the full understanding of that fraud and swindle by the Gentile majority which they have duped, cheated, and murdered for over two millennia embodies their greatest fear. And their greatest fear, thanks to the world-wide web, is now a reality. Mr. Franken, the free-speech horses of uncomfortable and true information regarding the fraud of Jewish religion and history have left the barn long ago at breakneck speed. You have already lost the real info-war (and by that term, I am not referring to your Zionist sayan shill, Alex Jones). We, the global Gentile majority of Humanity completely know what is up, and that is not good news for you and your vicious humanity-hating Zion-swindlers, Inc.