WIRE Uber's Trying to Become More Like Amazon, Facebook and LinkedIn. Here's Who It Should Really Learn From Looks like Uber is taking pages from the playbooks of Amazon, Facebook and LinkedIn. But the lesson it needs comes from another company in the Valley. By Justin Bariso Justin Bariso is an author and a consultant who helps organizations think differently and communicate with impact. In 2016, LinkedIn named him the “Top Voice” in “Management and Culture.” His forthcoming book, EQ, Applied, shares fascinating research, modern examples, and personal stories that illustrate how emotional intelligence works in the real world. WRITE A COMMENT CREDIT: Getty Images 
Since he took over as Uber's chief executive two months ago, Dara Khosrowshahi has been working hard to change both the company's reputation and organizational culture. Just last week, he published a new set of values on LinkedIn, which he's calling "Uber's new cultural norms." To help create greater buy-in, Khosrowshahi encouraged his people to help write these values, resulting in over 1,200 employees sending in submissions that were subsequently voted on thousands of times. 
As I examined these principles, I couldn't help but notice the familiarity--in comparison to other organizational culture statements I've studied through the years. To illustrate this, I've gathered statements taken from official pages of Uber , along with Amazon , Facebook and LinkedIn . 
Let's see how Uber's new cultural "norms" compare to these companies. Then, I'll explain why it could learn a much more important lesson from another company in the Valley: Netflix. Customer obsession 
Uber: We are customer obsessed. We work tirelessly to earn our customers' trust and business by solving their problems, maximizing their earnings or lowering their costs. We surprise and delight them. We make short-term sacrifices for a lifetime of loyalty. 
Amazon: Customer Obsession. Leaders start with the customer and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to competitors, they obsess over customers. Ownership 
Uber: We act like owners. We seek out problems and we solve them. We help each other and those who matter to us. We have a bias for action and accountability. We finish what we start and we build Uber to last. And when we make mistakes, we'll own up to them. 
LinkedIn: Act like an owner. We expect our employees to act like owners with regard to every decision they make, no matter how big or small. 
Amazon: Ownership. Leaders are owners. They think long term and don't sacrifice long-term value for short-term results. They act on behalf of the entire company, beyond just their own team. They never say "that's not my job". Ideas from everywhere 
Uber: We value ideas over hierarchy. We believe that the best ideas can come from anywhere, both inside and outside our company. Our job is to seek out those ideas, to shape and improve them through candid debate, and to take them from concept to action. 
Amazon: Invent and Simplify. Leaders...are externally aware, look for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by "not invented here". Boldness 
Uber: We make big bold bets. Sometimes we fail, but failure makes us smarter. We get back up, we make the next bet, and we go! 
Facebook: Be Bold. Building great things means taking risks. We have a saying: "The riskiest thing is to take no risks." In a world that's changing so quickly, you're guaranteed to fail if you don't take any risks. We encourage everyone to make bold decisions, even if that means being wrong some of the time. Integrity 
Uber: We do the right thing. Period. 
LinkedIn: Integrity. We expect employees to do the right thing. Period. Who Uber Could Really Learn From 
To be clear, I don't think this is a bad thing. Companies can and should learn from each other. If you took an even deeper dive, you'd find even more similarities between the value statements of various companies. 
But years ago, another Silicon Valley company taught a major lesson about culture statements and true organizational culture: Netflix. 
In its iconic cultural slide deck (which was first made public in 2009), Netflix reminded us that talk is cheap. Many companies--including Enron (a company that went bankrupt from fraud and whose leaders went to jail)--have/had nice-sounding value statements, espousing qualities like: Integrity. Communication. Respect. Excellence. 
"These values were not, however, what was really valued at Enron," explain the Netflix writers, before summing up a powerful truth in a single sentence: 
"The actual company values, as opposed to the nice-sounding values, are shown by who gets rewarded, promoted, or let go." 
I'd expand Netflix's definition of "the actual company values" to include what company leadership demonstrates through their actions, as well as what they permit. 
So, will Uber's culture, which seems to be undergoing massive reform, eventually reflect its "new cultural norms?" 
Time will tell. 
If Uber's chief executive truly believes in these values, he now has the chance to prove it. But to have any chance at truly affecting change, he'll have to remember: 
Actions speak louder than words. Like this column? Sign up to subscribe to email alerts and you'll never miss a post. The