By Max A. Cherney
Video advertising, messaging monetization seen as opportunities after Facebook tops $500 billion market cap
With 1.3 billion people using its site daily, a valuation topping $500 billion and projected third-quarter revenue of nearly $10 billion, Facebook Inc. has established itself as one of the greatest attention-capturing machines in modern history.
Investors have rewarded the Menlo Park, Calif.-based company, sending its stock to a record high Monday (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/facebook-hits-intraday-record-high-ahead-of-third-quarter-earnings-2017-10-30) ahead of its third-quarter earnings release Wednesday after the close. Expected by analysts to log quarterly revenue of $9.86 billion, or $4.85 per active user, according to FactSet, Facebook (FB) has been adding to its user base, but has also succeeded in squeezing an incrementally increasing amount of revenue out of each active user while effectively controlling the online ad market along with Alphabet Inc.'s (GOOGL) (GOOGL) Google.
"In the big picture, negative trends across traditional media assets and the desire for brands to stretch ad dollars further has left Facebook and Google with an unequivocal duopoly in the industry," wrote Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co. analyst James Cakmak in a note to investors last week. "In fact, our ad agency checks suggest capitulation from advertisers and brands in many regards (not to mention publishers) to Facebook's walled gardens."
For Facebook, growth in the future will likely be a product of two main efforts: Its push to video, which could add more inventory to Facebook's main site at a higher price point, and ramping up monetization on existing properties such as Messenger and WhatsApp as it apparently has on Instagram.
UBS analyst Eric Sheridan wrote in a note to clients last week that Instagram was "under appreciated" compared with its peers, and that WhatsApp and Messenger represent longer-term growth possibilities for Facebook. Facebook does not break out revenue for Instagram or other services, so investors are likely to be looking for more clarity on user engagement around Instagram and its other properties on Wednesday's call with analysts.
Read:Facebook steps up Washington lobbying in face of Russian ad blowback and talk of new regulation (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/facebook-steps-up-washington-lobbying-in-face-of-russian-ad-blowback-and-talk-of-new-regulation-2017-10-26)
Video, and the lucrative ad-buys that come with it, is one of the massive areas Facebook is actively targeting. Investors will closely watch any executive commentary around video and the company's Watch tab, a video-specific feed Facebook has added to its core app (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/facebook-turns-to-original-tv-content-with-new-watch-tab-2017-08-09). From its original content offerings to its live sports streams, adding more video content to Facebook could add an enormous amount of ad inventory, according to RBC Capital Markets analyst Mark Mahaney.
"Facebook still has many growth levers left to pull, not least of which is video advertising," he wrote in a note to clients last week.
What to watch for
(https://dynamic-insets.s3.amazonaws.com/charts/cdc_312184da2796a6b413ba8f9f_embed.html)
Earnings: Analysts surveyed by FactSet project Facebook will log earnings per share of $1.28, up from 82 cents in the year-earlier quarter. The Estimize consensus, made up of estimates from hedge-fund executives, brokerages and buy-side analysts, is for earnings per share of $1.37.
(https://dynamic-insets.s3.amazonaws.com/charts/cdc_f1d6cf5cb51585ee202646e2_embed.html)
Revenue: The FactSet consensus is for sales of $9.85 billion, up from $7 billion in the year-earlier period. The Estimize consensus is for $9.96 billion.
(https://dynamic-insets.s3.amazonaws.com/charts/cdc_336fd9c9b5dbcaf2eb94a14c_embed.html)
Stock Reaction: Facebook stock has gained 4.2% in the past three months, compared with the S&P 500 index's gain of 4.4%. Facebook shares have climbed 56.2% thus far this year, with the S&P 500 rising 15.3%.
Of the 44 analysts covering Facebook, 40 give the stock a buy or overweight rating, three rate it a hold and one rates it a sell, according to FactSet. The average price target is $197.56.
See also:Facebook's Zuckerberg target of ire as social-media users get to grips with algorithms (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/facebooks-zuckerberg-target-of-ire-as-social-media-users-get-to-grips-with-algorithms-2017-10-25)
What else to look for: Mobile ad monetization has been very strong, according to Mahaney. In a note to investors last week, the analyst wrote that the company's mobile ad sales are showing "significant growth" and now make up 88% of the company's overall sales.
Mahaney, who has an outperform rating with a price target of $195 on Facebook, wrote that through RBC's research into ad spend, his team of analysts found that advertisers were interested in upping their buys on Instragram.
See also:Mark Zuckerberg admits he underestimated impact of fake news on Facebook (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/mark-zuckerberg-admits-he-underestimated-impact-of-fake-news-on-facebook-2017-09-27)
While advertisers may be interested in upping their spend on Instagram, Facebook's overall growth rate has been slowing as a result of limited growth in its ad loads, wrote MKM Parnters analysts Rob Sanderson in a note to clients Monday. The analyst, who has a buy rating and a price target of $200 on Facebook, sees the growth situation thusly:
For the past four quarters, executives have been consistent in its message that limited growth in ad loads would cause revenue growth rates to "come down meaningfully" after mid-2017. Consensus currently reflects about 1,830 basis points of revenue growth deceleration over the next six quarters, more than double the 710 bps over the trailing six quarters. Upside result could create domino effect on consensus, moderating the rate of deceleration through 2018, and could drive more bullish investor sentiment.
Don't miss:Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook will all go away within 50 years, says author (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/amazon-apple-google-and-facebook-will-all-go-away-within-50-years-says-author-2017-10-17)
Facebook has been warning that it will slow down the pace of ad growth in its core News Feed for more than a year, but revenue growth hasn't slowed down (http://www.marketwatch.com/story/facebook-keeps-warning-about-growth-but-growth-doesnt-stop-2017-07-26). Susquehanna analyst Patil, who has a positive rating with a price target of $200 on Facebook, also wrote to clients about the ad load slowdown:
Regarding ad load, we continue to expect Facebook to emphasize the core news feed ad load growth slowdown and its likely impact on revenue growth; however, based on our extensive checks, we believe Facebook has many levers to sustain strong growth, including recent video initiatives (such as Watch and mid-roll ads), Instagram monetization ramping, upward bias to pricing, and more efficient news feed usage, among others.
One other potential challenge for Facebook is its regulatory scrutiny, as Cakmak wrote to investors:
-Max A. Cherney; 415-439-6400; AskNewswires@dowjones.com
While Amazon's regulatory scrutiny has materially eased, Facebook's elevated to a degree. The good news, however, is that we believe risks to transparency over the company's algorithms, and in turn, potential flags over privacy, are much more muted as congressional attention shifts direction.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
11-01-17 0854ET