Warbler – A tiny dashboard to help manage your social media content Warbler helps you schedule content, queue content, help organize your social media accounts and save time. 
Whether you’re a social media agency, professional or freelancer – your time matters – especially when you’re managing multiple clients. Would you answer “YES” to any one of these questions? Do you find it time-consuming juggling between Instagram, Facebook & Twitter? Does it get complex tracking when you need to put out content OR if you’ve already put content out? Do you hate having to keep logging in an out of different platforms to post for different clients? Do you hate having to post on Instagram manually? ...if so, we’ve might have the solution for you. 
Warbler lets you: Set-up specific times you want to post, so you never have to think about the best time again. Post on multiple channels at once, with the ability to fine-tune your content. Add text, links, videos and images, all from a simple unified interface. Track when your content will be sent out. Manage unlimited clients with multiple social media accounts from a single dashboard. Features Unlimited Clients Warbler was designed for agencies and professionals managing multiple clients. It’s super easy to add clients and group their social media accounts together. 
Multiple Social Accounts Warbler currently supports Facebook (profiles, pages & groups), Twitter and Instagram. We’ll be adding LinkedIn, Google+ and more as soon as possible. 
Photo & Video Warbler can post both photos (jpeg, png) and videos (mp4). It also supports multiple photo posts. 
Queuing Set-up specific times for individual social media accounts and add your posts. Warbler will queue them and post them at the relevant times for ALL your clients! 
Scheduling Need to post a specific time? Warbler has that too. Simply set a date and hit the “Add to schedule” button. When it’s time, your post will appear on the relevant social media channel. 
Easy Installation Super easy to install, just make sure you have the right server requirements. We’re happy to help. It’s built with Laravel. Server Requirements