In the 4 seasons he has been at Barça, Rakitic has played mostly as a right interior, occasionally as a left interior and/or as a defensive midfielder in either a nominal 4-3-3 or a 3-4-3 diamond. 
The right interior spot belonged to Xavi Hernandez before him. How did Xavi play? 
“Look for spaces. All day. I'm always looking. Here? No. There? Space, space and space. I see space and I pass. Whoever has the ball is the master of the game." 
Playing alongside Iniesta and Busquets, Xavi was a controller. Slightly deeper in the right half space, he would decide the tempo of the game. With his outrageous vision to find space and unbelievably accurate passing, he developed the game. Always kept the ball moving; kept circulating the possession. His position demanded he didn’t keep the ball to himself and move, to move the opposition. As much as it was an act performed by the entire team, Xavi did it best. Also, at times him and Leo would perform the famous ‘La Pausa’ to suddenly stop the play… as if it were a pause in a composition to come up with a new melody. 
Rakitic doesn't do any of that. Mind you, it’s NOT about comparing him to Xavi because we already know he’s not the player latter was. Rakitic played in the hole at Sevilla (a modern #10). However, at Barça, as he was shifted to the right side (#6), it seems as if that has completely shut off his creativity. In Luis Enrique's first season, Alves was still playing. He kept marauding up and down the right flank. Also, Busquets was made to play much ahead of his usual position to compensate for the loss of control in the absence of Xavi in playing 11. 
The task he had at his hands was to cover for an attacking minded Dani Alves who took charge of creating chances up the right flank, while combining with Leo. Rakitic was essential for the balance of the team as he was willing to do the dirty work. Contrary to it, whenever Dani stayed back, Ivan had the license to push up the box and convert crosses or through balls, or even take shots, breaking the deadlock. Did it on multiple occasions (Cordoba 8-0; City 1-0; Juventus 3-1). 
The other teams caught up. They knew what they had to do and started isolating Busquets, so when pressed, the midfield struggled. Rakitic is bad at 1v1s. He can't carry the ball like a skilled dribbler. As the dependence on MSN increased, the midfield found it hard to supply the ball to the front 3. In a fear of losing possession, they would bypass central build ups for wing play, and this would lead to flank isolation. You see, an entire vicious cycle set up leading to loss of structure and ofcourse, creativity. 
Dani Alves left Barça on a free move to Juventus. 
Teaming up with Sergi Roberto as a RB, Rakitic’s positional flaws started to show even more. He tended to drift wide and hug the touchline, in the presence of a fullback who didn't provide too much width, or even take risks for that matter. This explains all our asymmetrical passmaps from Lucho’s era. The safe play of the right flank forced Messi to drift centrally to get the ball, and sometimes drop as deep as Pique to receive it. Blondie’s positional atrocity didn’t only cause problems for Leo, but also for Busquets, who had no passing options left to him whatsoever (with Rakitic on the touchline). Iniesta on his left hand was usually found covering for Neymar because the latter would get dispossessed more than 20 times per game. Teams knew where to hit us and began pressing and isolating Busquets even more so, opening up spaces and exploiting them. 
"Sometimes not taking a risk is the biggest risk you are taking." – rightly said so by Pep. 
Talking about this season, Ernesto has added more structure to the team. Pressing improved as a unit but the team continues struggling to play good football and is lucky to have escaped with points on numerous occasions. Why? A certain someone isn't smart enough. You know who. 
Rakitic STILL hugs the touchline more than often which leaves unfielded gaps (Saul’s goal, Atletico 1-1). The two times he has been solid this season is when he started with a proper fullback in Semedo (against Juventus and Espanyol). His safe play is irritating, because of the lack of risks he takes. Instead of playing a line breaking through ball when he can, he chooses the safest options. To pass backwards to the Centrebacks or sideways. Explains Leo’s reaction in one of the latest video from the match against Malaga, where he was thoroughly disappointed at Rakitic not passing the ball to him. 
To conclude, Rakitic’s positional blunders have cost us on a number of occasions now, which is why it’s important we replace him with someone who has adequate knowledge of the position he’s playing. Someone who isn’t slow; someone who knows when to pass and when not to; someone who keeps looking for spaces to exploit while moving the ball and the opposition with it; most importantly, someone who’s willing to take risks. Number of players on the market have been mentioned time and again by this page in this regard. In the meantime, Sergi Roberto HAS to start over Rakitic as right holding mid and not Paulinho. Sergi should certainly be NOT started as a fullback. These things need to happen if Barça wish to keep playing good entertaining football as a team and to keep our chances alive against tough oppositions.