HTML Web based program or script that will upload images from dropbox and post it to facebook 
i want to save some images on my specific dropbox folder, and i want a program script or web service that will automatically post the image to my facebook page in real time (instantly) Offer to work on this job now! Bidding closes in 6 days Open - 6 days left Your bid for this job PHP Set your budget and timeframe Outline your proposal Get paid for your work It's free to sign up and bid on jobs 10 freelancers are bidding on average ₱2313 for this job Hello, and thanks for the opportunity to bid on your project. [url removed, login to view] Relevant Skills and Experience Web(PHP, MySql, HTML5, Java) and Mobile (Native and Hybrid). I am also an expe More ₱2180 PHP in 10 days (211 Reviews) Hi there, You want to post images from Dropbox to facebook automatically right? Yor this I will use FB and dropbox API and create my own API for automatic update in real time. Thanks Relevant Skills and Experience PH More ₱2507 PHP in 5 days (127 Reviews) Welcome you. I just read your description and made full understanding. I will do my best to keep prices as low as possible and execute your project to your full satisfaction. Relevant Skills and Experience I have suff More ₱2500 PHP in 3 days (6 Reviews) I can post images from your dropbox folder to facebook instantly as you requested for ₱2000. And I can deliver it within a day Relevant Skills and Experience PHP, Web Developer Proposed Milestones ₱1000 PHP - Initial More ₱2000 PHP in 1 day (7 Reviews) I’m excited to share with you the proposal ,i am an expert in project you mentioned , Imagination and creativity can change the world . we are creative and imaginative We guarantee you to submit the work within tim More ₱2222 PHP in 1 day (3 Reviews) Ankit1007 Dear sir, I have a team of expert developer and designer who can give make any kind of application with their skill set. Relevant Skills and Experience I have seen requirements and I am 100 % sure that I can make i More ₱2222 PHP in 10 days (5 Reviews)