Were You a Victim of Russian Propaganda? Facebook Will Help You Find Out By SHEERA FRENKEL Continue reading the main story Photo Facebook is trying to assuage critics who said it did not do enough to stop Russian propaganda from spreading on its platform ahead of the 2016 presidential election. Credit Elise Amendola/Associated Press SAN FRANCISCO — Have you ever wondered whether you have fallen prey to a Russian misinformation campaign ? Soon, you will be able to find out. Facebook said on Wednesday that it planned to roll out a new tool later this year to help figure out if that new page you followed on Facebook or account you added on Instagram was secretly being run by Russia’s troll army. The tool, which you will find through a newly created portal on your Facebook or Instagram page, is part of an effort to “protect our platforms and the people who use them from bad actors who try to undermine our democracy,” Facebook said in a blog post . The social network is trying to assuage critics who said Facebook did not do enough to stop Russian propaganda from spreading on its platform ahead of the 2016 presidential election. The social media giant, along with Twitter and Google, were grilled by lawmakers on Capitol Hill several weeks ago about their role in the election and the unintended consequences of their technology. Continue reading the main story Facebook has said that 29 million Americans saw content created by Russian agents directly in their news feed, while 126 million shared posts that were shared or linked to by their friends, with that number rising to roughly 150 million when including Instagram. On Election Day itself, about 10 million people saw ads purchased by the Kremlin on Facebook, the company has said. Andy Stone, a spokesman for Facebook, said the company hoped the tool would help Americans who liked a page or followed an account created by a Russian agent, though he acknowledged that it stopped short of being able to help the much wider circle of people who viewed Russian propaganda shared by their friends. Facebook executives previously said they doubted whether they had the ability to reach out to every single American who was exposed to Russian government-backed propaganda. Newsletter Sign Up Interested in All Things Tech? The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email.