What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved Learning genuine way of earning money from online or internet What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved Sanjay November 5, 2017 Facebook instant article beginner How to earn money from Facebook 0 
I hope everyone is aware of about Facebook instant articles, this is the another way to earn money if you have very good network on your Facebook page. i have already explain how setup Facebook instant article step by ste p. Today we will learn today What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved. 
Hear we are disclosing after approved your articles from Facebook instant article, what are the next step you must to be follow to show instant article to the world. 
There are few step you should follow, so that your article became live in the form of Facebook instant article, i am really wondered after setup Facebook instant article because just fraction of seconds your article will display in Facebook, really its great technology adopted by Facebook. anyway today we will learn What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved. Step#1 
You must search the Facebook Audience network google , so that you will able enter into setup Facebook ads and to grow your revenue through Facebook. After Facebook instant article approved, next step details. Step# 2 
One you open Facebook audience network from google, following website will open. continue reading What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved. Facebook audience network setup after Facebook instant article approved by Facebook 
If you are not create Facebook instant article app, just click on the “Start Now” , its just 1 minutes workout to create Facebook. once you click on the start now button automatically you will able to see the your Facebook page and app will be create. 
if you did already as i showed through my article procedure , you just click on your top rite corner “My Apps” option. automatically Facebook detect your Facebook page app , you can select which one you want to start. Facebook audience network setup after Facebook instant article approved by Facebook Step# 3 
Once you click on your app, you will able to see the you app dashboard. on your left side you can able to see “Audience Network” option just click on that, so that you will re-directed into Facebook audience network ads placement page . you just click on the “Placement” option. Facebook instant article ad placement method 
Step# 4 
After this step , you see following screen ,you can able see the automated created HTML ads code you have to copy this code and must paste into your article which you already uploaded into Facebook page . Facebook audience network ad placement setup step by step 
You click on Get Code option , you will able to see the pop and click on “Copy to Clipboard”, so you copied your add HTML code. now simple you have to do. you just go to your Facebook page and click on “Publishing Tools”, continue read What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved. Setup Facebook ad into Facebook instant article Step# 5 
Once you click on “Publishing Tools” option , your Facebook instant article page will get open , look your left side and you can find “Production article “ option , just click on that , once click that option you will all your articles which your already uploaded through RSS method. continue reading What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved. 
Click as per following step How ad Facebook ads to Facebook instant article step by step details 
Once click on this option , your article will open in the form of HTML code , hear you should be careful to paste your ad HTML code into your article. 
As per Facebook instruction you must paste the ad HTML code after 180 character or more than that , so that Facebook will show there add into your article. 
You have find </p>, next this code you must paste your code which you copied from Facebook audience network , and press the “ Save” option and again one more option will appear again you press “Save” option , you can paste multiple area but you should always paste code after 180 character. How to paste Facebook audience copied ads on your article full details step by step Step# 5 
Once click ok the Save button , your article automatically will go to unpublished condition, you must Re-publish the your article as shown below steps. 
You Just select your article which you pasted ads into that, then select (✓) and then find above and click on the “Actions” button , and then press the “Publish” Option , so that again your article showing as a live condition. How to re-publish the Facebook instant article after adding ads on the article Step# 6 Last step of What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved 
Last step, once above procedure has been done , you can able to publish your content on your Facebook page. continue reading What Is The Next Step After Facebook Instant Article Approved. 
Just go to your “website” and copy this content link and paste that content on your Facebook page . 
Once you did this process , take your mobile go to your Facebook page and click on your post , your article will open in the fraction of second and you can able to see the Facebook ads between the post article. Facebook instant article setup verification method 
Utilize this opportunity and earn money from Facebook instant article, this for only mobile users. Facebook will not out any ads automatically on your articles , manually you have to wherever you required in your article. and after you just post the article so that people can able to see your article with very speed and ads. 
Final instruction increase your Facebook page fans and increase your Facebook page likes , so many user can see this and your can earn more money from it. 
I hope this method is crystal clear , if any clarification required on this step and please share your comments we will help you. 
Apart from Facebook instant article many option are open to earn money from online , like google blogger , WordPress and google app. check out below article for more information setup details.