9 hours ago 1 Shares Wheelchair User Makes Brave Facebook Post After Being Repeatedly Rejected On Tinder Sun Oct 29 2017 16:56:10   16:57:15 GMT+0000 (GMT) Claire Reid Claire Reid in community Powered by 
A Tinder user has taken to Facebook to speak out against discrimination he had received on the dating app - because of his disability. 
Jack Hunter-Spivey was born with cerebral palsy and has lived his whole life in a wheelchair. He says that he has found that his disability has hindered his ability to meet women on the app, because many of them either take pity on him or stop speaking to him altogether when they discover that he is in a wheelchair. 
The 22-year-old, from Liverpool, wrote the post after enduring several rejections because of his disability. Credit: Mercury Press 
He wrote: "Honest opinion guys... would you date someone in a wheelchair? And what are your first thoughts of a disabled person when you see them? 
"Don't worry I won't get offended by the answer just genuinely interested in people's thoughts. For anyone wondering my willy is indeed in full working order." 
He could never have expected the response that it would receive. 
"I was stunned with the amount of people saying how good looking I was," said Jack, who is a Paralympic table tennis player. 
"I wasn't expecting it." Credit: Mercury Press 
"I've had a lot of girls inboxing me since saying, 'it doesn't matter about your wheelchair, you're really hot'. I've had people on Tinder who won't talk to me after they find out I'm in a wheelchair." 
Jack continued: "I have had past relationships. It is sometimes a struggle to go out and meet people when they see that you are in a wheelchair. 
"I'm just like every other person my age and don't have much trouble initially talking to girls but it is their preconceptions of people in a wheelchair that is sometimes annoying. 
"That they have to feel sorry for me in some way and it comes across sometimes like they are doing a good deed. 
Within a day of posting on Facebook, Jack received more than 20 inbox messages from girls who found him attractive and wanted to go on dates with him. Credit: Mercury Press 
"The Facebook post was great because all the girls weren't bothered that I am in a chair they were just all commenting on my looks. I was really overwhelmed. I just wanted to know what people thought but the response has been incredible. It made me feel really good," he explained. 
"I'm quite a confident person anyway I was just genuinely curious about people's perceptions. I wasn't begging for attention I was just happy to have some. 
"My friend who is also in a wheelchair was really made up with the comments." Featured Image Credit: Michael Loveder/Mercury Press Claire Reid Follow @ClaireReid19 Claire Reid is a journalist at LADbible. Claire graduated from Liverpool John Moores University with a BA in journalism. She’s previously worked at Trinity Mirror. Since joining LADbible, Claire has worked on pieces for the UOKM8? mental health campaign, the Yemen crisis, life in the Calais Jungle as well as a profile of a man who is turning himself into a cyborg. Powered by