When your pup is Facebook famous Aileen Bennett, Be You Published 12:00 p.m. CT Oct. 30, 2017 Share CLOSE Get the latest in food and entertainment news around Acadiana, right in your inbox. Times of Acadiana Will Boggs (Photo: Aileen Bennett) CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE He’s good looking, smart as anything and full of energy, but more about Murph the dog later. This article is really about Will Boggs. Until recently, Will was the owner of Run Forest, a local running store, but this has been a tough year for retail and with the economic downturn and the Youngsville flooding the business didn’t survive. Will is upbeat and looking for his next opportunity, he’s got all kinds of experience and is the hard working type, get in touch with him if you have something. As for Murph the dog, he’s a bit of a star — he even has his own Facebook page (Murph the running lab). While Will and I chat he is diving into the water at Sugar Mill Pond and making the most of every moment, we could all learn a little from his attitude. What was your first job? I helped my grandfather who is a carpenter. I basically stood there while he told me to do things in French, which I didn’t understand. Describe a typical day in your life. Get up in the morning, skip breakfast, head to work until 6, home for a snack then gym or a run, wine, then catch up on our recorded shows until my fiancé falls asleep on the couch and gets mad at me because I let her fall asleep. If it’s Wednesday, I hang with the little one so it’s the zoo, park, pool or just playing outside. What advice would you give the younger you? Start running in High School. I didn’t really start running until I joined the Navy and I set myself pretty far behind the 8 ball. What event in your life most shaped who you are now? Joining the military. I had started college and was just too immature to get through it. The Navy taught me accountability and gave me some structure and allowed me to see the world. What values do you live by? I have always tried to live my life being a good person and treating people the way I want them to treat me. I figure if I do that, the rest kind of falls in place. What do you most appreciate? My fiancé is great and I’m really enjoying being a Dad. What is your favorite journey? I’m still trying to figure life out. It isn’t always fun or nice but I enjoy it. I’ve kind of done everything in my life bass ackwards so it’s always an adventure. Having a one year old is definitely adding some fun to this journey. Where is your favorite place to be alone? I lived in San Diego for six years and would love to sit on the rocks and just listen to the waves. What living figure most inspires you? My dog Murph inspires me to get faster. Well, he embarrassed me because I have gotten fat and slow and can’t keep up with him. What was the best advice you were ever given? My dad told me these two things Don’t drink whiskey. It doesn’t agree with the Boggs blood. There is no such thing as a fair fight. I occasionally have whiskey in moderation and I don’t fight but if I did, it wouldn’t be fair. What book would you tell everyone to read? Oh wow. I think these days "1984." What is the best thing about where you live? I live in Youngsville so it’s great because it’s like living in the country with the convenience of a city. How do you "let the good times roll" ? Football games and festivals. What did you want to be when you grew up?' Initially a pro football player but when you’re 85 pounds in the 9th grade it’s pretty tough to get on the team. What is your motto? Just have fun. How would you like to be remembered? I would just like to be remembered at all. Maybe a small statue with a dad joke beneath it. What do you say to yourself when you doubt yourself? DBAP. Don’t be a pansy. Just get it done. What three things are vital to BEing YOU? Humor, Fun and Always learning. Which words or phrases do you most overuse? Absolutely. The F word is probably number one though. What can I say, I was a sailor. What is your favorite word? Moist. Haha. I also like plethora. What do you collect? What food could you live on for a month? Boudin. What would you change about yourself? I wish I was a little bit taller. I’m also a terrible procrastinator. What literary, movie or cartoon character do you most identify with? Matthew McConaughey in "Dazed and Confused." Describe yourself in five words. Smart, funny, athletic, terrible at math. What is your idea of happiness? Being debt free What is your favorite movie? Where do I start? "Forrest Gump," "Shawshank Redemption," "Good Will Hunting," I’ve got too many to pick just one. What music defines who you are? I’m not sure. I listen to literally everything and I think I can find a bit of myself in all of them. What do you most regret? Not running in high school What question do you wish I'd asked? Which way I place the toilet paper on the roll. What would the answer be? From the back. Not over the front. CONNECT COMMENT EMAIL MORE