Health News GUNMAN Who was Devin Kelley? Texas shooting suspected gunman who ranted on Facebook and was dishonourably discharged from the US Air Force 
He was sued for divorce in 2012 in New Mexico, the same year he was court-martialled, and remarried in 2014 By Ellie Cambridge 7th November 2017, 7:50 am Updated: 7th November 2017, 7:55 am Comments A GUNMAN burst into a Texan church and opened fire during a Sunday service leaving multiple people dead. 
Here's what we know about the man suspected to be behind the horrific slaughter. Enterprise News and Pictures Devin Kelley is thought to be the man who shot multiple people in a church service Who was Devin Kelley? 
Devin Kelley is a former member of the US Air Force - the 26-year-old is thought to be a married father. 
After he was suspected to have gunned down dozens of people during a church service in Sutherland Springs, Texas. he was found dead in a car. 
Two officials identified the suspect of the November 5 shooting as former serviceman Devin Kelley. 
They said Kelley lived in a suburb of San Antonio and does not appear to have links to organised terrorist groups. 
His Linked In profile revealed he previously taught bible studies to kids as young as four, while former friends said he enjoyed hunting animals. 
He was sued for divorce in 2012 in New Mexico, the same year he was court-martialled, and remarried in 2014. 
He was described as “creepy” and “weird” by former schoolmates - Nina Rosa Nava write on Facebook that the mass murderer used to rant on the social network about his atheist beliefs. 
She said: “He was always talking about how people who believe in God were stupid and trying to preach his atheism.” 
Police revealed during a press conference on Monday that Kelley had "expressed anger" towards Michelle Shields, the mother of his second wife Danielle, and sent her "threatening texts" right before the massacre. Texas Police Department He was in the US Air Force until he was court-martialled Why did he leave the US Air Force? 
The US Air Force confirmed Kelley served in its ranks from 2010 and was posted to its Logistics Readiness unit at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico. 
He was court-martialed in 2012 on charges of assaulting his wife and child - he reportedly beat his stepson so violently that his skull broke. 
He was given a bad-conduct discharge, confinement for 12 months and a reduction in rank. 
US President Donald Trump has described the suspect as "deranged" saying a the shooting was a "mental health problem at the highest level", but not a "gun situation". AP:Associated Press A man wipes his eyes after a deadly shooting at the First Baptist Church How many people died in the attack and what happened? 
Kelley wore a bulletproof vest and tactical-type gear as he entered the church during the late morning service. 
He fired his weapon into the congregation of about 50 and stopped only to reload his gun. 
Eventually he fled from the First Baptist Church and was found dead in his car. 
It is not known if he shot himself or was taken down - he made a final call to his dad, cops said, to say he had been shot. 
At least 26 people were confirmed to have been killed and 30 others wounded. 
23 people were shot inside the church and two were gunned down outside the building. 
Another person died on the way to hospital. US President Donald Trump expresses grief for victims of Sutherland Springs mass shooting MOST READ IN US NEWS 'SHE'S A BAD B***H' Rants of Texas church shooter who preached atheism before killing 26 CATCH ME IF YOU CAN! Crazy moment man crawls through luggage check-in and runs onto runway SPACEY SNAPS Kevin Spacey 'cuddles and massages' model half his age in newly-uncovered pics bunny toiler Playboy model who body-shamed OAP could face JAIL after 'shirking' punishment 'I KNEW EVERY SHOT WAS A LIFE' Have-a-go hero who stopped Texas gunman breaks silence LEFT ALONE Naked two-year-old twin girls found wandering near a MAIN ROAD Topics