Tue, 10/31/2017 - 17:31 ELH 
T oday, New York City was hit by what appears to be a terrible terrorist attack. The attack occurred in lower Manhattan, where the suspect was able to drive down a bike lane for several blocks, hitting dozens of people. 
One man has been taken into custody, and according to ABC News, the suspect is Sayfullo Saipov from Tampa Florida. Multiple law enforcement officials tell @ABC that the suspect in custody is identified as 29-year-old Sayfullo Saipov from Tampa, FL. 
-- Katie Conway (@Real_MaryK8) October 31, 2017 
Sapiov is from Tampa Florida and he is 29 years old. BREAKING: ABC News confirms suspected ID'd as 29-year-old Sayfullo Saipov from Tampa, Florida. https://t.co/NvvFWGq259 
-- Eyewitness News (@ABC7NY) October 31, 2017 
According to reporters, he yelled "Allahu akbar" when he left the truck that he was driving. He also carried multiple guns. The police would not officially identify Saipov, although ABC News has provided that name. Saipov Sayfullo: Religion 
According to reports, Sayfullo yelled "Allahu Akbar" during the attack. That would indicate that he is Muslim. However, there is no official confirmation on that. Saipov Sayfullo: Facebook, Twitter, Social 
Saipov Sayfullo is not known to have a Facebook that is public. However, there is a Google Plus page for a man named Sayfullo Saipov. It can be found here . Story continues below.... Saipov Sayfullo Businesses, Jobs 
According to the Florida incorporation database, a man named Sayfullo Saipov started a company named SAYF MOTORS. Much of the information that comes up under that name is in Russian. The name Saipov appears to be of Kyrgyz or Uzbek (former Soviet Union) descent. It is unclear whether the name is Sayfullo Saipov or Saipov Sayfullo, as the latter is used in an arrest document from 2016, but the former was reported by ABC. 
Several reports say that Saipov Sayfullo is a national from Uzbekistan; however, there is no independent confirmation of that. 
He appears to have had a warrant for failure to appear in court due to a traffic offence. 
Please check back as this is being updated... 
NY