Freelance Visual Designer and portrait photographer living in beautiful San Diego, California. Nov 7 Illustration by Patrick Fore With the latest mass shooting in Texas, I have kept silent on Facebook and other social platforms about it. I’ve taken the time since Sunday to process this most recent shooting and try to shift my perspective. It’s not surprising that we need to figure out this problem. And it’s not productive to get into pro-gun/anti-gun arguments. This issue requires leadership, innovative thinking, bold risk-taking and someone that can rise above the power and greed that has kept this country from moving forward and begin to solve this problem. We can no longer look to the current congress, senate or office of the president to solve this issue. They have shown an unwillingness even to start an honest and productive conversation on how to solve the problem. They continue to block common sense gun-laws that the majority of Americans (even gun-owners) are in favor of passing. They even block research money by the CDC and others to collect the facts surrounding events like Texas, Las Vegas and all the rest. There is too much money at stake for them, to much power. Men like McConnell, Ryan, Trump, Pence, and others have laid their cards on the table, and they have no reservations about showing who they wish to protect. It’s not the American people. It’s men who aim to make a lot of money on the fear of the public. To stop a bad guy with a gun they say, you need a gun guy with a gun. That sounds like great marketing to me, after all, that good guy needs a gun, and those CEOs of gun manufacturers are happy to sell them one. That is why days like today are so important. We need to VOTE people into office (on both sides of the aisle) who are willing to ask the tough questions, stand up to the gun-lobby and do what is right. Yes, it’s not all about guns or gun laws. It’s about health care as well. We need a robust public option and resources to fund mental health research and build centers where people can talk to people free of charge. Talk therapy shouldn’t be just for those that can afford it or those lucky enough to have good insurance. The current state of politics didn’t come this way overnight. What we have now is a perfect storm of advertising money controlled 24-hour news cycle, a flood of amateur and angry bloggers turned journalists. Also, the 2010 Citizens United ruling that said political giving was free speech, enabling the super wealthy to contribute millions and millions of dollars to candidates in exchange for favors and protections. Also, with the rise of tea-party politics, we have allowed racists to have a louder voice and a seat at the table. We have abandoned political norms to enable members right-wing fringe groups to hold office. This power shift has shown to validate and inflame the extreme right views of the frustrated and disenfranchised part of the population. All of this emotion, toxicity and dangerous thinking comes to a head in events like Charlottesville and Ferguson. Events like that are a direct result of a culturally blind neo-liberalism (Clinton) and Trump politics combined with vast systemic injustices in our courts, policing and the widening economic gap. Bad things happen when economic and political power consolidates into a small group. Those in power want to protect their positions of power at all costs, and horde more power by keeping others to having the power of their own. Hense, the frustration and angst of marginalized communities of color. And even whites. Which in 2016 gave us Trumps Washington. Trump just saw this (or paid people to figure it out) and morphed into a candidate that metrics predicted would win. Angry white people who weren’t being heard by the neo-liberal democrats or by the stiff out of date Republicans (Romney). To me, Clinton is just as much part of the problem as Trump; we need to begin to elect our countries best people to solve these issues. We don’t need more Clintons or Paul Ryans or even Obamas. We need someone who is fearless and can follow facts instead of the money. Somone who dares to stand up to even our preconceived notions and biases and cast a new kind of vision for our country. So yeah, we need to widen the scope of the problem from guns, to a major, systemic crises facing this country. It is less about guns and more about empathy. We need to listen to each other and hire leaders who can empathize more and strategize less. Politicians who feel just as comfortable in a pool hall in Kentucky than in a dinner for Wall Streat bankers. Leaders who can engage the people of color and the forgotten white voter. We need a third-way of politics, one that transcends this or that, red or blue but can peel back the layers of the systems and address the cause. Research the issues, find the candidate you think that will solve the problem, then vote. If 2016 has taught us anything, I hope it has taught us that apathy and laziness will not solve any problems.