Email address: Leave this field empty if you're human: 
A NY woman was FREAKED when she noticed a Facebook add that seemed too perfect a coincidence… 
Yeeeahhh…. that’s a little weird. 
Obviously the picture of the model was taken before the ad came up on her feed, but it does beg the question… 
How much access do social media platforms have to our life? How much do they know? Are they monitoring us in ways we’re not even aware of? 
I had a friend tell me that she was once talking about a specific kind of cookie with her boyfriend in front of her “Alexa.” A few minutes later an ad for those cookies popped up on her monitor. 
I’ve heard all kinds of theories about how we’re being spied on through our webcams and microphones…. I even know someone who keeps a small piece of tape over his camera. 
But is it true? Should we be concerned? 
AM I BEING WATCHED RIGHT NOW?! According to this: 
A woman was left stunned when an advert showing a woman dressed in an identical outfit to her popped up on her phone. Jen Lewis, from Brooklyn, spotted the bra ad from Third Love featuring a model wearing a pair of pale blue skinny jeans and short-sleeved pink blouse. 
The writer and designer recreated the model’s pose and posted the near-identical pictures side-by-side on Twitter, where they have since gone viral with more than 20,000 likes. 
Jen wrote: ‘Uh, Facebook just served me a bra ad where a woman is wearing the outfit that I’m currently wearing.’ 
Facebook is increasingly using sophisticated technology to bring users personalized or ‘targeted’ adverts; just last month it were forced to deny that the network ‘listens’ to users through their devices’ microphones. 
And earlier this year a patent suggesting that the firm wants to ‘spy’ on its users through their phone or computer cameras was discovered. 
While some Twitter users claimed Jen’s experience was nothing more than a coincidence, others convinced that something sinister was at play with one person writing: ‘Get a cover for your camera. I’m not kidding.’ 
Another replied: ‘There is [artificial intelligence] to match clothes photos with [stock keeping units] and it works extremely well. So there’s actually a chance this is targeted.’ 
While Martin Smith quipped: ‘Are you sure you’re not in a bra ad right now?’ 
But some social media users insisted that Jen’s case was nothing more than a strange coincidence. 
Ugh, ugh, ugh…. Super creepy. 
Big brother, folks….