Freeman Cebu News ( Leaderboard Top ), pagematch: , sectionmatch: 1 Woman faces libel for malicious Facebook post By Mylen P. Manto (The Freeman) | Updated October 30, 2017 - 12:00am 
CEBU, Philippines — The Office of the Cebu City Prosecutor has indicted a woman for allegedly posting defamatory remarks on her Facebook account against her neighbor, a former employee of Cebu City Hall. 
Prosecutor II Venice Balansag held Julieta Huan, a resident of Tres de Abril, in Barangay Labangon, Cebu City, for trial after finding probable cause for libel. 
"...that on the basis of the sworn statement and other documents submitted before me there exists a reasonable ground to believe that the crime of violation of Republic Act 10175 (libel) has been committed and that the accused is probably guilty thereof," the resolution stated. 
Balansag recommended P24,000 bail for Huan’s temporary liberty while the case is pending before the court. 
In her complaint-affidavit, Angelina Cua alleged that sometime in September last year, Huan and Teresita Camonias had been spreading malicious stories about her that she had a relationship with her fellow worker at Cebu City Hall and they allegedly had sex in the rooftop of their office. 
She also said that Huan posted on Facebook the defamatory remarks against her on September 23, 2016, which caused her shame and humiliation being a married woman. Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 
Balansag summoned Huan and Camonias to submit their respective counter-affidavits to answer the allegations filed against them but they failed. Thus, Balansag ruled based on the evidence at hand. 
Balansag found probable cause to indict Huan before the court but dismissed the complaint filed against Camonias for insufficiency of evidence. 
"The evidence at hand for Teresita Camonias lacks certainty on the date when she committed the said crime. The document attached to the records of this case particularly the printed screen shot...does not indicate the year when the messages was posted so that the reckoning period of which the crime is committed cannot be determined. Hence, the complaint for Internet Libel against Teresita Camonias be dismissed without prejudice of refiling the same," read the resolution. —/MBG (FREEMAN) Freeman ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: