The Washington Post Omitted Clear Political Motivations on Social Media for At Least One Accuser Former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore. 
One of the women who accused Republican Roy Moore of sexual advances posted a “Doug Jones for U.S. Senate” video on her very liberal Facebook page. On Thursday, The Washington Post ran a story citing on-the-record interviews with four women who claim that when they were teenagers Judge Moore — in his 30s at the time — attempted to court or date them. 
Deborah Wesson Gibson is one of the four women. The Washington Post made an obvious effort to purify the political motivations of the accusers, but clearly omitted significant details about at least Ms. Gibson. 
Debbie Wesson Gibson says she was 17 when Moore spoke to her high school civics class and asked her out on the first of several dates that did not progress beyond kissing… 
According to campaign reports, none of the women has donated to or worked for Moore’s Democratic opponent, Doug Jones, or his rivals in the Republican primary, including Sen. Luther Strange, whom he defeated this fall in a runoff election. 
Corfman, 53, who works as a customer service representative at a payday loan business, says she has voted for Republicans in the past three presidential elections, including for Donald Trump in 2016. 
However, a simple review of Ms. Gibson’s social media activity is putting the authenticity of certain details in the report in doubt. The Washington Post, who claimed to have researched campaign reports, somehow overlooked that she was a supporter of Judge Moore’s Democratic opponent, even posting his campaign announcement video to Facebook on September 18 . 
She also shared a flier to one of his campaign rallies and shared stories about defeating Judge Moore. Screenshots taken from the Facebook profile of Debbie Wesson Gibson, one of the four women who accused Judge Roy Moore, the Republican candidate for U.S. Senate in Alabama, of sexual advances when they were underage. 
In addition to supporting Mr. Jones, there was one pro-Democrat and anti-Republican post after another, including a “Resistance Report” video by former Clinton Administration Labor Secretary Robert Reich. Screenshots taken from the Facebook profile of Debbie Wesson Gibson, one of the four women who accused Judge Roy Moore, the Republican candidate for U.S. Senate in Alabama, of sexual advances when they were underage. 
Ms. Gibson could not be reached for comment, as her voice mail is full. But she reportedly told AL.com she stood by her comments in The Washington Post interview. AL.com also reported she worked for Hillary Clinton’s campaign as a sign language interpreter. 
People’s Pundit Daily (PPD) has confirmed the report and also uncovered another event with Vice President Joe Biden. 
Ms. Gibson’s company — Signs of Excellence — has offices in Florida and Alabama, providing sign language interpretation to businesses, politicians and government. In other words, she makes money off of government. 
While the Facebook page belonging to Ms. Gibson was filled with liberal causes, someone’s political persuasion doesn’t nullify allegations. But it does put them into question when they are intentionally omitted in a report filled with accusations that cannot be proven or disproven. 
Facebook Post Below Linked Here : 
Dear Everyone: 
If you are still wondering about Graham-Cassidy and whether or not you should support it as replacement of the ACA, have a look at who ALL is AGAINST IT and why~ 
Facebook Post Below Linked Here : 
The abomination that is the Graham-Cassidy Bill would disproportionately hurt Americans who are children, veterans, sick, female, and poor. 
Today, please call your Senators and then call these Senators and tell them to vote NO on this savage piece of legislation. #SAVEACA 
McCain 202-224-2235