Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
A Second World War veteran has been reunited with a prestigious medal he lost when he attended a Remembrance Service in Loughborough. 
Former RAF man Frederick Parker, 95, of Connaught House, Loughborough, attended a ceremony at Queen’s Park on Sunday to pay his respects to the fallen wearing his military regalia. 
After the event, he and some family went to lunch and one noticed his Légion d’honneur, France’s highest honour which he was given after serving in France, was gone. 
His sister-in-law Karoliene Swinfield, of Mountsorrel, said: “We got him all dressed up in all his medals and took him to Queen’s Park. 
“It was only when we sat down for lunch one of us noticed that his medal was missing. 
“We couldn’t believe it. We retraced our steps but we couldn’t find it.” Read More 
They had taken Mr Parker out from Connaught House at around 10.15am and were worried as the medal “could have been anywhere”. Frederick wearing the prestigious French medal on the left of his chest in 2015 
Thankfully the award was handed to member of an army reserve squadron at the parade and made its way back to Mr Parker this morning – following a Facebook appeal. 
Concerned well-wishers took to social media to share news of the loss and eventually someone who knew the whereabouts of the medal got in touch with the family. 
Ms Swinfield said: “It would have been a sleepless night if we hadn’t found it. 
“It’s a really good result, it shows there’s some decent, honest, people in the world.” 
Two members of the 203 Loughborough Transport Squadron, Royal Logistics Corps, returned the medal to him this morning. 
Warrant officer Richard Bowles visited him with captain Ben Wing, whose wife contacted the family over facebook. Celebrating receiving the medal in 2015 
Mr Bowles said: "He was absolutely chuffed to bits. 
"To see the smile on his face actually made me fill up a bit. 
"He was just so happy." 
Mr Parker received the Légion d’honneur in 2015 due to his Second World War service in France. 
Speaking shortly after receiving the award, he said: “I was in the Royal Air Forces, and during the war period I was posted to France. Read More Fallen soldiers remembered at Remembrance Services across Leicestershire 
“I joined when I was about 18, and I was flying most of the time. We would do our practice firing over the sea where no one could get hurt. 
“I was awarded with a legion of honour medal because of the work I did for the French government. We helped build up an aerodrome that was abandoned because of the Germans.” 
When the war was over Frederick stayed in France for around 20 years and lived in Cannes. 
Frederick also worked in America before returning to the UK when he was near 50. Read More