You will soon be able to send cash via Facebook Messenger Service has already been available in the US for two years Share Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now Get Daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email 
Facebook Messenger has introduced the ability to send and receive money through in-app conversations for UK users. 
Messenger users will be able to add a payment card to their account, and then send and receive money directly from conversation threads with contacts. 
The technology giant introduced the feature to users in the US in 2015, but this is the first time it has been expanded. 
Messenger has more than 1.2 billion monthly users around the world. 
David Marcus, the head of Messenger, said introducing a tool to “socially” transfer small amounts of money had proved appealing. 
“Our research shows the top reasons for sending money include celebrations, social and festive occasions. It’s those everyday moments we’re trying to make a little easier – we’ve seen that in the US most people use payments in Messenger to send less than 50 dollars at a time,” he said. Read More 
Facebook said it takes “extra steps” to protect payment information in the new feature. 
All credentials are encrypted and protected with “bank-level security” and payments will be monitored by anti-fraud specialists. Read More Facebook has a new feature to let you silence your annoying friends 
The social network said it would work with users in any instances where unauthorised activity took place on their account. 
Facebook has also launched M suggestions for payments into the Messenger app, which uses artificially intelligent virtual assistant M to identify when payment is being discussed in a conversation and present options to send or receive money. 
Facebook said the payments feature would roll out to all Messenger users in the UK in the coming weeks. Like us on Facebook