0 
Many of us are addicted to Facebook. According to research , we collectively spend more than 8.3 billion hours on Facebook every month. 
However, this might be coming with significant drawbacks. Research studies have suggested that Facebook may be making us unhappy and depressed. 
But why? 
A Danish research study conclused that it’s because of people’s tendencies to compare themselves to others on social media. Most people only post positive things on Facebook so we’re left believing that our life isn’t as good as others. 
Another reason is that Facebook has become our go-to source for news. Due to Facebook’s algorithmic newsfeed that’s based on engagements, the most sensualist and bias articles tend to get the most attention. 
So, how can you avoid being emotionally hampered by your newsfeed? We have put together a few helpful strategies: 1) Understand the difference between being informed and being immersed: 
Most people defend their habit of browsing the social media by stating that they want to stay aware of ‘what is happening’. 
However, this is no justification for being on your Facebook or Twitter newsfeed all day. 
You need to take breaks from the social media to allow your brain to rest. Moreover, you should also aim towards having a balanced social media diet i.e. do not center yourself around the bad and depressing news only, but instead incorporate good news in your newsfeed as well. 2) Keep following the usual routine: 
As human beings, we find comfort in what we are familiar with which is why habits and routines are very important to us. 
Take out time to ensure that you provide your body with what is necessary for its proper functioning: regular exercise, healthy food, fun activities, and ample sleep. 
Remember that all of these are not just a ‘luxury’ in life but instead are a necessity for a healthy and happy lifestyle. 3) Use any opportunity for good 
Whenever you have an opportunity for taking positive action, no matter how small it might be, you should always take it. 
Even something as simple as donating to a charity, writing a letter, or meeting people face-to-face can keep the rational-logical part of our brains engaged. 
The negativity in today’s news, which is always appearing on Facebook, can cause you to think that the world is worse than it is really is. 
So get out in the real world and do some good. Remember that taking action derails anxiety while feeling powerless and doing nothing fuels it! 4) Avoid suppressing feelings 
All of us want to feel happy but negative and painful feelings are a part of life that we have to embrace. 
Instead of avoiding painful emotions, let them flow through. Dwelling on negative emotions leaves you emotionally ‘dead’ and can tie up your cognitive resources that hinder your ability to connect with others and solve problems. 
Facebook is addictive. So, when you notice that it’s giving you negative emotions, observe them, accept them and perhaps move onto another activity. 
Remember that feelings are a part of life – they come and go and they should not define you. 5) Stay optimistic 
The key rule for optimism is – avoid thinking about what you cannot control and focus on the what you can. 
You will find the transition from pessimism to optimism easier if you make an effort to heighten your position emotions. 
Negative emotions keep the door of opportunity closed for you which is why you need to learn to keep them away. Do the things that you enjoy and spend time with the people you love to add positivity to your life which will leave the door to possibility wide open for you. 6) Reach out and share your feelings 
Often times, we marginalize ourselves and crumble inwards because we think that others will not share our viewpoint, or we are simply too afraid to reach out. Connect with people that share your concerns – for instance, if you are angry at a rising problem in your town or city, talk to other caring citizens. 
Connect with the people that you know are going through a difficult time or are facing the same problem as you – let them know that you care and that you are here to provide support to them. 
It’s much easier to do this in person, than online. 
Avoid building walls between you and others and take every opportunity that you can to build bridges instead. 
Lastly and most importantly, when you are struggling and are in need of help, reach out for emotional support. 
This is not being selfish but instead, an act of self-preservation, remember that self-care is an essential part of leading a happy and positive lifestyle. 7) Talk to the kids 
The mental growth of a child is as important as their physical growth which is why we need to address their issues from the very beginning. Talk to your kids, understand how they feel, address their fears, and give a rise to their compassion. 
Encourage them to dream about a better (and happier) world and do everything that you can to nurture their ability to care and to feel. Remember that this is our next generation and they are the ones that offer the best path forward for this troubled world.