News ‘Facebook Events’ App Is Now ‘Facebook Local’ The new app, Facebook Local, helps you easily find what to do, where to go, where to eat, or what you need— all recommended by the people you know and trust," says Facebook's Aditya Koolwal. By David Kaplan Nov 10, 2017 12:05PM 
Facebook has revamped the separate Events app it released last year into with a broader mission designed to promote discovery and reviews. 
The new version, which is being rolled out on Apple iOS and Google Android devices is called, simply, Facebook Local. 
“Last year, we launched a standalone app for people who love using Facebook events to find things to do around them,” said Aditya Koolwal, Product Manager, in an email. “Now, we’re updating that app to help people find more things to do with their communities. The new app, Facebook Local, helps you easily find what to do, where to go, where to eat, or what you need— all recommended by the people you know and trust.” 
If that sounds a lot like Foursquare and Yelp, you’re probably right. But for Facebook, the decision simply follows its years-long focus on local as it tries to counter its primary advertising and marketing rival, Google. 
The release of Facebook Local comes after another high-flying quarter for the social network. Earlier this week, Facebook reported its Q3 2017 earnings by saying it now has nearly 2.1 billion people using Facebook every month and nearly 1.4 billion people using it daily. (Instagram also hit a big milestone this quarter, now with 500 million daily actives.”). Facebook Local app in action. Source: Facebook 
Overall, total revenue grew 47 percent year over year, and we had our first ever quarter with more than $10 billion in revenue. And with social media being inherently local, Facebook’s effort to make it easier for its users and businesses to connect and engage with each other is essential to keeping those numbers rising. 
“For my part, when I think about our Marketer segment, we have SMBs; we have brand, direct response, and developers,” Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg told analysts during the company’s earnings call. “We’re seeing strong growth across all those areas. “I think if you think about where the growth remains, it really is in increasing the relevance of the ads, because the ads I think are getting better in terms of reaching the right people at the right time.” All Users Are Local 
While Facebook Local didn’t come up during the earnings call, the importance of local advertising did. 
Sandberg touted Facebook’s Custom Audiences and its targeting tools, as leading to better experiences for both consumers and businesses. 
As an example, she pointed to an effort by the Alameda County Fair, a local fairground in Pleasanton, California. The Fair used Facebook to target people within 25 miles of their fairgrounds, focusing on ages 20-to-51 who have specific interests in concerts, music festivals, and theme parks. As a result of Facebook’s tools, the Fair saw season pass ticket sales for 2017 rise by 50 percent compared to 2016. 
“That’s really about finding the people that are interested,” Sandberg said. “And if you look at the percentage of our ads business where people are using our most sophisticated approaches to finding the right audience, I think we still have a lot of opportunity for growth there, and that will improve both the quality of the ads people see but also the returns to marketers. And I think that will hit all of the verticals and all of the segments.” Tags in this story: Aditya Koolwal , apps , Facebook , Facebook Local , Foursquare , location , Sheryl Sandberg , SMBs , Yelp , Latest News Analysis How Taco Bell Stole The World Series From QSR Rivals Over the past two years, the World Series Taco Bell 'Steal a Base, Steal a Taco' promotion got a lot of bang for its buck nationally. But as Sense360 notes, these promotions show even more pronounced results on a local level. By David Kaplan, Nov 10th News 10 Things To Know About Online-To-Offline Marketing This Week All the location news this week, from how to rank in voice search results to PSFK on the 'future of retail.' By David Kaplan, Nov 10th By David Kaplan, Nov 9th About The Author David Kaplan @davidakaplan A New York City-based journalist for over 20 years, David Kaplan is managing editor of GeoMarketing.com. A former editor and reporter at AdExchanger, paidContent, Adweek and MediaPost. More By This Author