Facebook CEO Mark  Zuckerberg.Steve  Jennings/GettyOn an ordinary workday in mid-2016, a handful of Facebook  engineers were sitting on the couches in a corner of the  companys Menlo Park, California, headquarters when one of them  tossed out a wacky idea.He suggested doing something that had never been done before and  could upend the $350  billion telecommunication market."It cant be so difficult to build our own system," the engineer  said, referring to the telecom equipment that sends data across  cables and wireless networks, a system that could be faster,  yet cost less, than the pricey equipment sold by big vendors  like Huawei, Ericsson, Cisco, or Juniper Networks.The engineer was suggesting building the telecom industrys first  "white box" transponder, made with off-the-shelf parts such as  chips from Broadcom and Acacia Communications, optical equipment  from Lumentum, and software from one of the many new networking  startups cropping up these days.Facebooks director of engineering, Hans-Juergen Schmidtke, who  was among those on the couch that day, was at first a naysayer."I was a little bit skeptical about it at the time," he recounted  to Business Insider. As a former engineer at Juniper Networks,  Schmidtke knew from experience that building telecom equipment  systems was an expensive undertaking that involved hiring teams  of specially trained engineers and sizeable  research-and-development budgets."Building a system 10 years ago was like building a new company,"  Schmidtke said.Still, Schmidtke agreed to help this tiny group hack together a  white-box system at one of Facebooks hackathons. Three months  later the group had a working prototype. Six months later, on  November 1,   the company announced it to the world as a real product  called Voyager.The products unveiling sent shockwaves through the telecom  industry, putting gear makers on notice that the lucrative market  they controlled for decades was about to get turned upside down —  and not necessarily to their advantage.The effort is essentially Facebook, a social-networking company  whose bread-and-butter business is online advertising,  taking control of its own technical destiny. And the stakes  could not be higher for the telecom equipment companies that risk  seeing their products become commodities.Voyager has already been tested by Facebook and the European  telecom company Telia over Telias thousand-kilometer-telecom  network. Plus, the German telecom equipment maker ADVA Optical  Networking is manufacturing the device and   as of a few weeks ago had nine customers trying it out for  their telecom needs, a mix of big telecom companies and  enterprises, it said. And the Paris-based telecom provider Orange  is also testing the device, working with Equinix and the African  telecom company MTN."We pulled it off essentially showing that when a few engineers  can build a system within six months, the world has changed,"  Schmidtke said.One person told us that Schmidtke, who is insanely proud of  Voyager, has become a star in his own corner of the tech world.  When he and his team "go to conferences, they treat him like a  tech celebrity, like a rock band," that person said.Voyager was the first product, and a major proving point, for  Facebooks young Telecom Infrastructure Project, a consortium led  by Facebook and launched at the industrys worldwide gathering,  Mobile World Congress, on February 21, 2016.Hans-Juergen  Schmidtke.FacebookTIP is a spin-off from a similar organization Facebook launched a  few years ago called the Open  Compute Project.Facebook launched OCP and TIP because it sought to take control  of the technology used to support its over 1.8 billion people  uploading billions of photos, videos, and updates every day.It has been designing its own IT equipment for years, things like  computer servers, hard drives or storage systems, and data-center  networks. Its versions were cheaper to build and easier to  maintain than standard gear made by companies like Dell, HP, EMC,  and Cisco, it says.Lots of big internet companies build their own tech, including  Amazon and Google. But Facebook is unusual in that it openly  shares all the designs, literally gives them all away free,  inviting anyone at any other company to come work on them, with  contract manufacturers standing by to sell it all. Its a concept  called open-source hardware.In this way, Facebook gets lots of help in maintaining and  advancing its infrastructure. And the rest of the world gets  access to tech designed to work in the most demanding  circumstances, like at a huge internet company.OCP has radically changed the data-center tech industry, and  those involved say it has created a cult-like following. For  instance, when the secretive Apple refused to join OCP to let its  IT engineers collaborate with others, its crew of network  engineers quit their jobs. They turned around and launched a  startup called SnapRoute and built network software for the OCP  community,   the story goes. Apple later joined OCP. SnapRoute wound up  being the software chosen for Voyager.OCP created so much competition for hardware vendors like Hewlett  Packard and Dell that they opted to join the organization and  embrace the white-box concept. The alternative was to be squeezed  out of selling their products to companies with the biggest and  fastest-growing data centers in the world — not just Facebook but  Microsoft, Goldman Sachs,   and dozens of others.There was just one major area that had been somewhat left out of  OCPs free and open-source hardware revolution: the  telecommunications part. Thats the equipment that connects  homes, businesses, and data centers across long distances via  undersea cables, wireless networks, and so on.Jay  Parikh.FacebookAnd the big telecom companies, those that spend millions of  dollars a year on this gear, wanted in. They were seeking an OCP  of their own, Facebook discovered when it launched its  Internet.org, CEO Mark Zuckerbergs project to bring internet to  underdeveloped countries."As we were thinking about Internet.org and helping get more  people connected, the idea was, were doing this thing called OCP  to help the data-center community to build infrastructure thats  more efficient, more cost-effective, thats greener and more  sustainable, more flexible. And we said, can we do that for the  telco industry?" Facebooks vice president of engineering, Jay  Parikh, said."Facebook, having learned from OCP, comes in and says, we can  play maybe a catalyzing function," Parikh said, describing early  meetings he and his crew had at Mobile World Congress. "Were  investing our people and our dollars into technology that is  going to solve these problems, and were going to contribute that  technology, that IP," or intellectual property, "into the  ecosystem so that you all can benefit from this."Voyager is one big example. "Thats something we developed and  its like, wow, we actually solved a problem that a bunch of  operators seem to be struggling with," he said.Alex Choi, the chief technology officer of South  Koreas SK Telecom, agrees that telecom operators like  SKT want faster, cheaper, and more open equipment and were  inspired by Facebook to take it into their own hands.Dr.  Alex Choi, the CTO, executive vice president, and head of South  Korea Telecoms corporate R&D center.Mobile  World Live"The idea all started from Facebook," Choi said. "Mark Zuckerberg  was always addressing the importance of connecting the  unconnected."In 2015 and 2016, Zuckerberg came to the MWC conference, gave  keynote speeches, and hung out with top telecom executives.He wanted to know what was keeping those people off the internet.  He discovered that bringing telecom services to far-out parts of  the world "was too expensive" for telecom operators, Choi  recalls.Facebook wanted to help bring the costs down. But developed  nations in Europe, Asia, and the Americas had the same problem.  People are buying more devices, using more video. And with the  Internet of Things, millions more objects are joining the  internet daily, communicating over telecom networks."Theres a huge growing traffic demand," Choi said. "That means  we have to install more base stations, find more sites, invest  more in the fiber and the backbone and supporting IT  infrastructure." But telecom companies cant charge more to cover  the costs. People are pushing them to charge less, for unlimited  data plans.Zuckerberg  before his keynote conference during the first day of the Mobile  World Congress 2015 at the Fira Gran Via complex in Barcelona,  Spain.David Ramos/Getty  ImagesWhile Zuck didnt do the actual recruiting to get TIP off the  ground, he "inspired people," Choi said.When Facebook executives (including Aaron Bernstein, responsible  for partnerships with mobile providers, and Jason Taylor,  Facebooks vice president of infrastructure who leads OCP)  approached him about forming the new organization, Choi liked the  idea so much that he became the chairman of the TIP organization.It felt revolutionary.OCP has invented lots of cool new hardware for the data center,  and telecom operators had never banded together to build their  own gear, he said."Operators rely too much on the big telco incumbent vendors," he  said. "We kept pushing the vendors to do more innovations, to do  something to bring down their premium price tag. They are making  efforts and making progress but not as fast as we want them to  be. So what can you do? You explore other opportunities."Deutsche Telekoms Axel Clauberg was in a similar boat. He first  got in touch with Facebook in 2015 about participating with OCPs  networking efforts.There had been a push for more telcos to join OCP at that time  because Facebook has been helping usher in a new way to build  computer networks. It takes all the fancy, complex features out  of the hardware and put them into software. In the corporate  network world this push is called software-defined networking.  But its happening in the world of telecom service providers,  too, where its called Network Function Virtualization, or NFV.Facebook didnt invent SDN or NFV, but in the slow and  conservative world of network engineering, OCP and TIP are  radically pushing these concepts forward. OCP is proving the  technology works even for a huge demanding internet site like  Facebook   or for a giant telecom network like AT&T."We are facing exponential traffic growth," Clauberg said. "We  needed to do something."And theres one more issue going on besides tight budgets and  huge growth, he said: the war for talent. Decades ago, hardware  and communications engineers went to the telecom companies to  build amazing new things, like mobile networks. Then they went to  the tech companies like Cisco to build the tech that created the  internet. Today, they are going directly to the internet  companies like Google and Facebook and creating new hardware so  they dont have to rely on the vendors, he said.TIP gives them a way to access the smartest minds without having  to poach them.When engineers graduate from college, Clauberg said, "which  companies are they looking at?""In old days," he said, "it was the telcos. Then it was the  suppliers, now its the internet companies. The funny thing is  with OCP, you have all these parties working together. I envision  achieving the same [with TIP]. So having players from internet  companies, from startups and established vendors, and the telcos,  working together on what the infrastructure of the future should  look like."Clauberg joined TIP as a founding board member, alongside SKTs  Choi. This was a powerful first step. SDK and DT are two of the  most advanced telcos in the world, role models for many others.  Facebook also persuaded Intels Caroline Chan to join TIP, which  was an easy sell. Intel is also a founding member of OCP. And TIP  was off and running.But there was one surprise founding member of TIP: Nokias  Laurent Le Gourrierec.Telecom devices that can be put together with standard parts and  software are deeply threatening to the multibillion-dollar  telecom equipment market dominated by companies like Huawei  Technologies, Ericsson, Cisco, ZTE, and Nokia.Axel Clauberg, VP in the  Technology Innovation/Group, Deutsche TelekomYouTube/GEN15And Voyager isnt the only product. TIPs OpenCellular project is  working on an open-source 4G LTE/LTE base station, the hardware  and the software.As SKTs Choi describes it, TIP wants to "democratize" the  technology, making it easier for anyone to build, use, or modify.  That means taking it out of the hands of the equipment providers  who create proprietary radios and base stations today.TIPs impact wont happen overnight, explains analyst Rohit  Mehra, the vice president of IDCs Network Infrastructure  practice. But the goal is clear: to overhaul the telecom  equipment industry, which he says is about a $350 billion market  when factoring in software, hardware, and services."This is not the first time Facebook has done this," Mehra says.  "Theyve been somewhat successful with what they call OCP. The  Telecom Infrastructure Project is disruptive not just to  telecom-equipment makers but in some cases the telecom service  providers. Though in some cases it helps the service providers  because it intends to give them more cost-effective  infrastructure."So TIP is, in some ways, threatening Nokias main telecom  business.But Nokia is a close partner of Facebook and the one telecom  equipment vendor embracing TIP as a founding member and board  member.Le Gourrierec of Nokia explains why using an adaptation of an  Abraham Lincoln quote."The best way to predict the future is to invent it," he tells  Business Insider. "You have all these equipment makers saying,  The world is changing so lets try to hold on to what we know.  But the thing is that the world is changing anyway, so its much  better to take an active role in shaping the future."If all goes well, TIP and Facebook will actually help create new  customers using new telecom services, those people in undeveloped  nations who never had telecom or internet, Le Gourrierec  believes."So its best to participate in the definition of new  partnerships, new services in partnership with the existing  actors in addition to the new ones," Le Gourrierec said.When Facebook created Voyager, Nokia didnt shake in fear.  Engineers there thought, "Maybe we can learn something for this,"  Le Gourrierec said.But there are other equipment makers that are, technically, part  of TIP too. Currently the organization boasts more than 100  members from all facets of the industry.But Choi, Clauberg, and Le Gourrierec said many of them had only  been nervously watching the group so far.Laurent  Le Gourrierec, the vice president of strategic partnerships at  Nokia.Nokia"They are not actively contributing," Le Gourrierec said.Obviously, the kumbaya concept of open source doesnt work well  like that. Everyone has to contribute ideas for a community to  blossom.One way TIP is encouraging them to jump in is a different  approach to sharing intellectual property. Participants dont  have to give away all their closely held, lucrative ideas and  secrets the way they do with OCP or with other open-source  organizations like Linux.Each working group in TIP can instead decide to use an older,  more established method for sharing, known as Reasonable And  Non-Discriminatory Terms. RAND allows vendors to be paid tiny  fees by everyone who uses their intellectual property as long as  those fees are reasonable and the tech is made available to  everyone without bias. The company cant, for instance, jack up  the price to its competitors.The TIP board members are also encouraging participation by  telling members that TIP will lead to plenty of other new  commercial opportunities, too, even if TIP successfully turns the  hardware into low-cost generic white boxes. Teleco providers can  instead develop new software that can be bought via lucrative  subscriptions, similar to the software startups that have  sprouted up around OCP.In fact, Nokia is already experimenting with a high-performance  software product able to run on low-cost, ordinary computer  network hardware. Its geared toward businesses, not service  providers, but its a start, Le Gourrierec tells us.TIP is also encouraging engineers and companies to join by  creating a "culture" working group that helps teach telecom  engineers how to "work fast and break things" as the internet  world does."One of things we learned in the last 1.5 years in working on TIP  is people saying, How do you help me transform my culture and my  team so that we can move faster?" Facebooks Parikh said.Telecom is a world that traditionally frowned on that. Working  fast and breaking things could take down the network and get you  fired.The culture group has become a popular entry point for engineers  wanting to check out TIP. They then bring these ideas back to  their jobs. It helps some engineers become more open-minded about  sharing. For others, like Le Gourrierec, it inspires "a new sense  of urgency," in his work at Nokia, he describes.We heard only one major criticism regularly lobbed at TIP: that  Facebook is becoming extremely powerful. Maybe too powerful.  After Facebook launched Voyager, Facebook dominated the gossip at  the latest Mobile World Congress, sources told us.A Facebook Voyager optical  network device.FacebookFacebook is making equipment with TIP and OCP, it has  state-of-the-art data centers, it has a roster of talented  engineers, and it is also laying its own telecom cable, including  a   new record-breaking fast subsea cable installed with Nokia  between New York and Ireland.It could snap its fingers and become a powerful telecom and cloud  operator tomorrow, some people fear (and  others predict) as Amazon did with Amazon Web Services or  Google did with Google Cloud and Google Fiber.But Parikh said Facebook had zero interest in doing that. "We  arent operating any networks ourselves. We are trying to help  the telcos solve this," he said. The idea is to "share" lessons  and technology to "always benefits" the whole community.SKTs Choi just shrugs off the idea that Facebook is a threat,  saying telecom operators have more to gain than to lose."I can understand the concern. Its very much natural, because  operators are always being disrupted," he said, especially by  large American internet companies "like Amazon, Google, and  Facebook."Facebooks  OpenCellular access point.Facebook  TIP"But in the long run, I strongly believe in mutual benefits," he  said. He notes that because Amazon helped create cloud computing,  there are new billion-dollar markets and "everyone benefits." He  added: "I think the same thing will happen in the teleco  sectors."Not everyone is convinced that TIP will succeed. IDCs Mehra  cautions that its a huge undertaking and the two biggest telecom  equipment vendors, Ericsson and Huawei, have remained cool toward  the project, for obvious reasons, he says."TIP may see progress over the years. But the challenges are  higher. They are working on four to five different domains of  telecom infrastructure, each with its own set of technologies and  own set of tech providers," Mehra says.All the board members of TIP acknowledge that the project is in  its early days and could fail. It could fail to attract a  community. It could fail to produce products the world wants to  use.But they believe it will succeed."Today most telcos remain as the status quo, but all the telcos  leadership, if you ask them, they want transformation," he said.  "They want changes. They want innovation. They have to overcome  it by collaborating with Facebook and others. Again, witness all  the innovations that have already happened in the cloud industry.  We want to apply all those innovations to the telco industry,  which will make operators happier and customer happier and for  everyone, a win/win."